<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10170">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Management Console (Admin View)</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.0index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/admin/console/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service's web interface is called the Management Console.</p>
<p>Note that users with Admin-level privileges have access to more options and settings than regular end-users. Some features documented here are available only from the Admin view.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/about">About the Admin Console</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/welcome">Welcome</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/system-information">System Information</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/cluster-nodes">Cluster Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/organizations">Organizations</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/users">Users</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/applications">Applications</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/cloud-events">Cloud Events</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/dashboard">Dashboard</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/router">Router</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/primary-node-status-graphs">Primary Node Status Graphs</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/settings">Settings</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/console">Console</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/quota-definitions">Quota Definitions</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/cloud-controller">Cloud Controller</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/console-settings-applications">Applications</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/dea">DEA</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/logyard">Logyard</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/harbor">Harbor</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/data-services">Data Services</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/file-system">File System</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="about-the-admin-console"> <title>About the Admin Console</title>
<p>The Application Lifecycle Service Management Console is a web interface that allows the
administration and management of the Application Lifecycle Service Server.</p>
<p>Your hypervisor provides <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0glossary.dita#term-tty-console" type="section"  >
<i>tty
console</i>
</xref> access to
each of its virtual machines. After startup, an Application Lifecycle Service VM displays:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>Application Lifecycle Service Management Console at

https://helion-xxxx.local
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>On a <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0glossary.dita#term-micro-cloud" type="section"  >
<i>micro
cloud</i>
</xref> VM where
the local network supports <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0glossary.dita#term-multicast-dns" type="section"  >
<i>multicast
DNS</i>
</xref>, the
hostname will be <codeph>helion-xxxx.local</codeph>. If you have
configured the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0configuration.dita#server-config-hostname" type="section"  >
<i>hostname</i>
</xref> and
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0configuration.dita#server-config-dns" type="section"  >
<i>DNS</i>
</xref> of the Application Lifecycle Service
server manually, or are connecting to a server administered by someone
else, supply the assigned hostname instead (e.g.
<codeph>api.helion-test.example.com</codeph>).</p>
<p>Enter the URL into your web browser, and the Management Console will
load. The Console is supported on the following browsers:</p>
<ul>
<li>Chrome 30+ (WebKit)</li>
<li>Firefox 20+</li>
<li>IE 10+</li>
</ul>
<p>Using a browser which fully support WebSockets is recommended.</p>
<p>
  <b>Note</b>
</p>
<p>The SSL certificate for the Application Lifecycle Service Management Console is self-signed.
You will need to manually accept this certificate in your browser. See
the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0configuration.dita#server-config-https" type="section"  >
<i>HTTPS section</i>
</xref>
for information on using your own certificate.</p>
<p>When you first access the Management Console, you will be prompted to
create a primary administrative user for Application Lifecycle Service. Enter an email
address as the username, set a secure password, then review and accept
the license agreement.</p>
<p>
  <b>Note</b>
</p>
<p>
<b>The password you choose here becomes the login password for the</b>
<codeph>helion</codeph> <b>user on the VM</b> (e.g. for
<codeph>ssh</codeph> access).</p>
<p>Once you've logged in, you can begin to add other users and admins,
enable and disable services, and generally set up the system to your
requirements.</p>
<p>Basic Application Lifecycle Service administration can be done through the Management
Console, but some maintenance and configuration tasks may need to be
done at the command line using the <codeph>kato</codeph> command.
See <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref" type="section"  >
<i>Kato Command
Reference</i>
</xref> for a full list
of options.</p>
<p>The Application Lifecycle Service Management Console will periodically send non-identifying pingbacks (Application Lifecycle Service version number and UUID) to HP servers to help improve the web console experience. You can disable this option by setting <codeph>theme_settings['pingback_allowed'] = false;</codeph> in the <i>settings.js</i> file described in the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.0customize.dita#customize" type="section"  >
<i>Theming and
Customization</i>
</xref> section.</p>
</section>
<section id="welcome"> <title>Welcome</title>
<p>The top-level page of the Management Console displays quick links to the
most used resources and views. The blue buttons are for features also
available for regular end users (see <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.dita#user-console-welcome" type="section"  >
<i>Management Console (User
View)</i>
</xref>).</p>
<p>Green buttons expose Admin-only functionality:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Configure Available Services</b>: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic10170/console-cluster-nodes">
<i>Cluster
Nodes</i>
</xref> view showing which roles are running
on which nodes. From this view you can add or remove Service roles
on the various nodes in the cluster (or on 127.0.0.1 for micro
clouds).</li>
<li>
<b>Manage Organizations</b>: Opens the
<xref type="section" href="#topic10170/console-organizations">
<i>Organizations</i>
</xref> view.</li>
<li>
<b>Manage Users</b>: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic10170/console-users">
<i>Users</i>
</xref> view.</li>
<li>
<b>View All Deployed Applications</b>: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic10170/applications">Applications</xref> view.</li>
<li>
<b>View Cloud Events</b>: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic10170/cloud-events">Cloud Events</xref> view.</li>
<li>
<b>View Dashboard</b>: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic10170/dashboard">Dashboard</xref>.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="system-information"> <title>System Information</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Version</b>: Version (release) number of the system.</li>
<li>
<b>MBUS IP</b>: The IP address that hosts the primary node. Cluster
nodes (if any) will connect via this IP address. In a micro cloud
setting, it will be 127.0.0.1.</li>
<li>
<b>API Endpoint</b>: The URL for helion clients to target. Normally
also the URL for the Management Console.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="cluster-nodes"> <title>Cluster Nodes</title>
<p>Displays a list of nodes in the current cluster, and what services are
running on each node. In a micro cloud configuration, only the current
local node ('127.0.0.1') is shown.</p>
<p>To enable or disable services on a node, click the <b>Configure Roles</b>
button (cog icon) to see the <b>Node Settings</b>, showing a list of all
available roles and checkboxes to enable or disable each one. Click
<b>Save</b> to apply changes.</p>
<p>See also the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-role-add" type="section"  >
<i>kato
role</i>
</xref> and <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-info" type="section"  >
<i>kato
info</i>
</xref> command
documentation for the CLI equivalents, and the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/cluster/1.0index.dita#cluster-setup" type="section"  >
<i>Cluster
Setup</i>
</xref> section for information on
adding nodes to the cluster.</p>
</section>
<section id="organizations"> <title>Organizations</title>
<p>The top level Organizations page allows Admins to add and delete
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" type="section"  >
<i>Organizations</i>
</xref>.
Clicking on an organization name opens its details. This view is the
same as a regular <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.dita#user-console-organizations" type="section"  >
<i>user's Organizations
view</i>
</xref>, but
admin users can edit quotas, and add/remove domains, spaces, and users.</p>
</section>
<section id="users"> <title>Users</title>
<p>The Users section displays a list of users and admins.</p>
<ul>
<li>Click <b>+ Add User</b> to add users.</li>
<li>Click on the user name or email address to view account details or
change the password.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="applications"> <title>Applications</title>
<p>The Applications section displays a list of all apps on the server. Click anywhere on the line
        for an app to view its details. Admins have the same permissions in the <xref
          href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.dita#user-console-app">
          <i>Application View</i>
        </xref> as a Developer of the space it was deployed to. It also lists the <b>Reserved</b>
        URIs; these cannot be used for end user applications.</p>
</section>
<section id="cloud-events"> <title>Cloud Events</title>
<p>The Cloud Events section displays a list of events (including errors and
warnings) on the Application Lifecycle Service server. The events can be filtered by Severity
or Type, or by using a substring match in the Search field.</p>
</section>
<section id="dashboard"> <title>Dashboard</title>
</section>
<section id="router"> <title>Router</title>
<p>Shows realtime results for incoming requests (connections per second),
routing errors (errors per second), and an overview of the cumulative
requests to the system.</p>
</section>
<section id="primary-node-status-graphs"> <title>Primary Node Status Graphs</title>
<p>Displays graphs for server statistics: CPU, Load, Memory, Disk
Operations, Disk Space, Processes, and Swap (primary node or micro cloud
only).</p>
</section>
<section id="settings"> <title>Settings</title>
<p>The Settings menu gives access to the following Console and system
settings:</p>
</section>
<section id="console"> <title>Console</title>
<p>Various settings and templates to customize the look and feel of the
Management Console. The settings are divided into the following
categories:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Product</b>: Options to rename and reversion Application Lifecycle Service for OEM
deployments, change the default locale (currently only 'en' and 'de'
available), choose a different URL for documentation, or disable
console pingbacks.</li>
<li>
<b>Look and Feel</b>: Change the favicon, header, footer, or background
color.</li>
<li>
<b>Welcome Page</b>: EJS templated HTML to display on the Welcome page
(see above).</li>
<li>
<b>Support Page</b>: EJS templated HTML to display on the Support page.
Change this if you are supporting your end users directly.</li>
<li>
<b>Eula Content</b>: End User License Agreement. Change this if you are
exposing Application Lifecycle Service to end users under specific terms.</li>
<li>
<b>Custom Stylesheet</b>: A single CSS file used to override any
existing styling in the Management Console. Inspect the Console with
browser tools such as Firebug or Chrome Developer Tools to see the
class names and IDs.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="quota-definitions"> <title>Quota Definitions</title>
<p>Lists the Quota Definitions available to apply to Organizations on the
system.</p>
<ul>
<li>To edit a definition, click the edit button on the right.</li>
<li>To create a new definition use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0client-ref.dita#command-quota-create" type="section"  >
<i>helion quota
create</i>
</xref>
command.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="cloud-controller"> <title>Cloud Controller</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Maintenance Mode</b>: Shuts down API requests but continues to serve
web requests, useful when performing system operations such as
importing and exporting data for upgrades. When the primary node
enters maintenance mode, the Management Console becomes "read only"
with the exception of this toggle (to bring it back online).</li>
<li>
<b>Logging Level</b>: Changes the verbosity of Application Lifecycle Service logs from
'debug2' (most verbose) through 'off' (silent).</li>
<li>
<b>Support Email</b>: The email address displayed to end users when
errors are encountered. Use an address which is monitored by
Application Lifecycle Service administrators.</li>
<li>
<b>Sample Applications URLs</b>: URIs for JSON files which populate the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.0app-store.dita#app-store" type="section"  >
<i>App
Store</i>
</xref>. The URIs need not be public, but
must be accessible from the controller node.</li>
<li>
<b>Allowed Repos</b>: Debian package repositories allowed in
application containers. End users can install additional packages
(e.g. with <codeph>apt-get</codeph> or <codeph>aptitude</codeph>) only from these repositories.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="dea"> <title>DEA</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Max Memory Percentage</b>: The percentage of physical memory each
DEA node can use for hosted applications. The 80% default setting
leaves enough memory for the OS and DEA processes on a node with 4GB
of RAM. This can be increased on nodes with more memory available
(e.g. to 90% on a node with 8GB of RAM). Do not exceed 100% unless
the system correctly supports swap space and has it enabled. Restart
all DEA roles/nodes to apply the change.</li>
<li>
<b>Max Staging Duration</b>: The maximum time allowed for application
staging.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="logyard"> <title>Logyard</title>
<p>Lists current log
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0logging.dita#logging-drains-system" type="section"  >
<i>Drains</i>
</xref> and the log
drain retry limits. Drains and limits cannot be changed in this
interface; use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-log-drain-add" type="section"  >
<i>kato log drain
...</i>
</xref>
commands and <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-config" type="section"  >
<i>kato config
...</i>
</xref> commands.</p>
</section>
<section id="harbor"> <title>Harbor</title>
<p>Settings for the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/cluster/1.0harbor.dita#harbor" type="section"  >
<i>Harbor</i>
</xref> TCP/UDP port
service.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>External Host</b>: The public IP (if configured) for the Harbor
node.</li>
<li>
<b>External Hostname</b>: The public hostname for the Harbor node.</li>
<li>
<b>Port Range Minimum</b>: Sets the minimum for the exposed port range
(default: 35000).</li>
<li>
<b>Port Range Maximum</b>: Sets the maximum for the exposed port range
(default: 40000).</li>
</ul>
<p>See <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/cluster/1.0harbor.dita#harbor-setup" type="section"  >
<i>Harbor: Requirements &amp;
Setup</i>
</xref> for more information.</p>
</section>
<section id="data-services"> <title>Data Services</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Allow Over-provisioning</b>: Ignore the Capacity setting.</li>
<li>
<b>Capacity</b>: Maximum number of service slots to allocate.</li>
<li>
<b>Max DB size</b>: Maximum size on disk for database services.</li>
<li>
<b>Max Memory</b>: Maximum amount of physical memory to allocate the
service.</li>
<li>
<b>Memcached Memory</b>: Maximum amount of physical memory to allocate
for memcached instances.</li>
<li>
<b>Max FS Size</b>: Maximum size on disk for filesystem services.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="file-system"> <title>File System</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Capacity</b>: Maximum number of service slots to allocate.</li>
<li>
<b>Max FS Size</b>: Maximum size on disk for filesystem services in MB.</li>
<li>
<b>Allow Over-provisioning</b>: Ignore the Capacity setting.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
