---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/app-store/
product: devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Sample Applications"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Sample Applications {#index-0}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/admin/console/app-store/)

The Sample Applications are a collection of ready-to-run applications which can be
deployed with a couple of clicks. This interface uses the same API as the CLI client to pull the source code from a Git repository rather than push an archive from the user's local
filesystem.

- [Creating Sample Applications](#creating-an-app-store)
	- [Sample Applications Definition File](#app-store-definition)
	- [Hosting Definition Files](#hosting-the-store-definition-files)
- [Adding the Sample Applications to the Application Lifecycle Service](#adding-the-app-store-to-helion)


Users have access to the main Sample Applications interface (see the [Application Lifecycle Service User Guide](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/), but do not have access to add new applications or add/modify the definition file.

##Creating Sample Applications {#creating-an-app-store}

The Sample Applications interface exposes multiple "stores" which specify the
available applications. These stores are sourced from definition files
specified in the main [Settings](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/#settings) page of
the Management Console or set using [kato
config](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-config).

### Sample Applications Definition File {#app-store-definition}

[YAML](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-YAML) files describe the settings for each set of apps, including the container and a link to the source  repository for
each app. For example:

    store:
      title: Third Party Apps for Application Lifecycle Service Development Platform
      contact: Application Lifecycle Service Development Platform Support 
      icon: http://static.als.hpcloud.com/hp.ico

    apps:
    - name: Bugzilla
      id: bugzilla
      desc: A bug tracking system for individuals or groups of developers
      framework: perl
      runtime: perl514
      services: mysql
      license: MPL
      commit: master
      src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/bugzilla.git
      info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/bugzilla.git#readme
      icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/bugzilla.png
      mem: 256

    - name: Django CMS
      id: django-cms
      desc: A content management system platform for publishing content on the internet.
      framework: python
      runtime: python27
      services: postgresql
      license: BSD
      commit: helion
      src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/django-cms.git
      info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/django-cms.git#readme
      icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/django-cms.png
      mem: 128

    - name: Node Chat
      id: node-chat
      desc: A simple chat application in Node.js with no other dependencies. Originally written by Ryan Dahl, the creator of Node.js.
      framework: node
      runtime: node
      commit: master
      icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/chat.png
      mem: 64
      license: MIT
      src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/node-chat.git
      info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/node-chat.git#readme

The YAML string requires two top-level keys: **store**
and **apps**.

###store {#store}
Contains entries that define the container for each set of Sample Applications.

**title**:Text used as a display name for the Sample Applications in the Management Console.

**contact**: The name and email address of the party responsible for maintaining these sample applications. 

**icon**: An image used for the Sample Applications icon. Specified as a full URL.

###apps {#apps}

This is an array of items (see YAML format above), one for each app in the container. Each app is defined by the following fields:

**name**:   The name of the app as displayed in the Sample Applications list.

**desc**:   A short description of the app, displayed below the name.

**id**: A short, lowercase, unique string associated with the app. Apps are sorted alphabetically in the list based on this field.

 **repo**
:   URL of the Git repository where the app code resides.

**commit**
:   Branch name, tag name, or exact commit hash to use. If unspecified, the HEAD commit of *master* branch is used.

**framework**
:   The framework the app uses, if the app is deployed using the [Legacy Buildpack](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/buildpack/#buildpacks-legacy)(e.g. perl, python, node, rails3).

**icon**
:   An image used for the app icon specified either as a full URL, a file relative to the **store** key **icon-url**
    URL, **default**, or other variable value.

**info**
:   A URL pointing to documentation for the app.

**license**
:   Optional string indicating the software license of the app (e.g.
     `MIT`, `MPL`,
     `BSD`).

**mem**
:   Memory requirements of the app (integer, in MB).

**runtime**
:   The runtime, if the app is deployed using the [Legacy Buildpack](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/buildpack/#buildpacks-legacy) (e.g. java, python32, ruby19, php, perl518).
**services**
:   Data services required by the app.

**Note**

The store definition settings do not override settings in the
application's *manifest.yml* file.

###Hosting the Definition Files {#hosting-the-store-definition-files}

The YAML files defining the stores can be served via HTTP or HTTPS by
any web server at a URL accessible from the Cloud Controller.

##Adding the Sample Applications to Application Lifecycle Service {#adding-the-app-store-to-helion}

1.  Log into the [Management
    Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/#management-console),
2.  Select **Settings \> Cloud Controller** from the menu.
3.  In the **Sample Applications URLs** section, enter a name and content URL for
    your store definition YAML file then click **Add Sample Applications URL**.

To confirm the Sample Applications are loading correctly, select **Sample Applications** in the menu and view the list of applications displayed. A **CC Catalog Manager** error appears in the Event Log if a Sample Applications URL fails to load.

Sample Applications URLs can also be viewed, added, deleted, enabled, and disabled
with [kato config](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-config). For
example:

    kato config get cloud_controller_ng app_store
