---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/customize/
product: devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1: Development Platform: Management Console Customization "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
role5: Network Administrator
role6: Systems Administrator
role7: Net Ops Engineer 
role8: NOC Engineer 
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Management Console Customization {#customization}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/admin/console/customize/)

The Management Console can be extensively customized and themed. Administrators can add or remove runtimes, frameworks and services from the system, and change the look and content of the [Management Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/#management-console) interface.

-   [Console Settings](#console-settings)
	-   [Product](#product)
    -   [Look and Feel](#look-and-feel)
    -   [Welcome Page](#welcome-page)
    -   [Support Page](#support-page)
    -   [Eula Content](#eula-content)
    -   [Error Pages](#custom_error)
    -   [Custom Stylesheet](#custom-stylesheet)
    -   [Settings Variables](#settings-variables)
    -   [Restoring values](#restoring-values)
-   [Renaming the Client](#renaming-the-client)

## Console Settings {#console-settings}

The Management Console is modified mainly through the **Settings \> Console** pages. Settings are saved as variables which can subsequently be used in HTML pages via the [Embedded JavaScript (EJS)](http://embeddedjs.com/) templating engine.

### Product {#product}

-   **Product Name**: Overrides all occurrences of 'Application Lifecycle Service'
-   **Company Name**: Overrides all occurrences of 'HP Software'
-   **Vendor Version**: Overrides all occurrences of the Application Lifecycle Service
    version number.
-   **Default Locale**: Sets the default locale of the console if the
    users current locale isn't recognized. Currently, only the 'en'
    localization is complete.
-   **External Docs URL**: The link that directs users to documentation. Defaults to the current documentation published to docs.hpcloud.com. Ticking 'Use local docs' will cause this URL to be ignored and the docs from the VM will be served instead.

### Look and Feel {#look-and-feel}

-   **Favicon Logo URL**: The favicon to use. Recommended to be 32x32px
    image/png.
-   **Header Logo URL**: The logo image to use in the header. Size can
    vary although anything bigger than 50px vertically may result in
    some distortion of the header (fixable with a custom style sheet).
-   **Footer Logo URL**: The logo image to use in the footer. Same as
    above but height is about 40px before distortion occurs.
-   **Background Color**: Sets the background color of the console.

### Welcome Page {#welcome-page}

The HTML/EJS to show on the Welcome page. The [*settings-variables*](#customize-settings-vars) and `username`
variable (current user) are available via EJS, but plain HTML will work
for simple use cases.

### Support Page {#support-page}

The HTML/EJS to show on the Support page. The [*settings-variables*](#customize-settings-vars) and `support_email` variable (see Settings \> Controller) are available.

### Eula Content {#eula-content}

The HTML/EJS to show in the EULA overlay. The [*settings-variables*](#customize-settings-vars) are available.

### Custom Error Pages {#custom_error}
To expose customized error pages, create the following HTML files in */home/stackato/stackato/static/vendor/errors/* on **each** Router node:

- 404.html
- 422.html
- 500.html
- 502.html
- app-not-available.html

When present, these files will be used to display the corresponding HTTP errors.
The default error page files (located at */home/stackato/stackato/code/console/errors/*) can be used as a reference, but should not be modified directly as changes may be lost during upgrades or patches.

### Custom Stylesheet {#custom-stylesheet}

CSS defined here will be applied to the page after the default CSS has
been loaded, and override/replace any style. Use this to change the
layout and color of any element in the Management Console. Use web
development tools like Firebug or Chrome DevTools to inspect elements
and find the relevant styles.

### Settings Variables {#settings-variables}

The following variables (with their default values) are available in the
EJS templates on the settings object (e.g.
*settings.product_name*):

-   product\_name: null,
-   company\_name: 'HP Software',
-   vendor\_version: '3.0',
-   default\_locale: 'en',
-   product\_logo\_favicon\_url: 'img/helion\_logo\_favicon.png',
-   product\_logo\_header\_url: 'img/helion\_logo\_header.png',
-   product\_logo\_footer\_url: 'img/helion\_logo\_footer.png',
-   background\_color: '\#ffffff',
-   style: '',
-   support\_template: SupportTemplate,
-   eula\_template: EulaTemplate,
-   welcome\_template: WelcomeTemplate,
-   external\_docs\_url:
    '[http://docs.helion.com/3.0/](../..)',
-   use\_local\_docs: "false"

### Restoring values {#restoring-values}

Each setting has an individual **Load Default** button (refresh icon to
the left of the value field) which will replace the customized value
with the default for that setting. Click 'Save' to apply the changes.

The red **Load Defaults** button at the top of the page deletes all
customizations and loads defaults for all settings.

As a failsafe for when style changes have obscured the interface, admins
can also reset specific settings by loading a URL with the following
format:

    https://<helion-url>/#settings/console/reset/setting_name

Replace **setting_name** with one of the variables above and that value will be reset to the default.

## Renaming the Client {#renaming-the-client}

The Helion client is distributed as a single
file executable for Windows, OS X and Linux (x86 and x86\_64). Zip files
containing executables for each platform can be found in the
`~/helion/static` directory.

Some customers may wish to repackage and rename these CLI executables to match their own branding. To do so: 
 
1. Unzip each archive
2. Change the name of the executable
3. Re-zip the contents with the desired filename
4. Save the archives to the */s/static/* directory **of each Router node**
5. Change the filenames in **Console Settings > Client** 

