<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3076_mpc">
  <title>HPE Helion Managed Cloud with Helion OpenStack Documentation</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><!--PUBLISHED--><!--./index.md--><!--permalink: /--></p>
    <!-- <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/38064508?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" width="580" height="420" frameborder="0"> </iframe> -->
    <p>HPE Helion Managed Cloud with Helion OpenStack provides a dedicated, single tenant, HPE
      Helion OpenStack 2.0-based managed private cloud, hosted in HPE data centers. This enterprise
      grade, rapidly-provisioned private cloud service is available to customers in an OpEx model.
      HPE Helion OpenStack provides an open source and highly-configurable infrastructure as a
      service (IaaS). The optional HPE Helion Development Platform gives developers a powerful set
      of tools to migrate traditional applications, build cloud native applications, and deploy both
      to an open and integrated platform as a service (PaaS) layer.</p>
    <p>This content set contains information about the following products:</p>
    <simpletable id="homepageTable" relcolwidth="1.0* 5.06*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="index_MPC.dita">HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm></xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>HPE’s enterprise-grade distribution of <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> software.
          This hardened, extensible product is designed to deliver leading open-source cloud
          computing while adhering tightly to OpenStack software API standards and
          services.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="../../devplatform/2.0/devplatform.index.dita">HPE Helion Development
            Platform</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p>A PaaS based on <tm tmtype="tm">Cloud Foundry</tm> technology and fully integrated with
            HPE Helion OpenStack. This product helps developers build cloud-native applications and
            then deploy across private and public clouds. </p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </body>
</topic>
