<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6108">
    <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Release Notes</title>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>Thank you for your interest in HPE Helion OpenStack This document provides an overview of
            the features contained within HPE Helion OpenStack version 1.1.1, including known issues
            and workarounds, and where to find further information on the product release.</p>
        <p>For more information on using HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade, see the <xref
                href="../Installation/carrier-grade-install-overview.dita#topic1925">HP Helion
                OpenStack Carrier Grade Installation Guide</xref>, the <xref
                href="../carrier-grade-administration.dita#topic916">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
                Grade Administrator Guide</xref> and the <xref
                href="../OperationsGuide/CGH-2-User-Overview.dita#jow1404333560080">HP Helion
                OpenStack Operations Guide</xref>. For information on using the HP Helion OpenStack
            Carrier Grade Developer API, including API definitions and usage descriptions, see the
                <xref href="../API/carrier-grade-api.dita#topic15959">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
                Grade API and SDK Reference</xref>.</p>
        <section>See:<ul id="ul_z23_gdw_c5">
                <li><xref href="#topic6108/changes" format="dita"/></li>
                <li><xref href="#topic6108/usage" format="dita"/></li>
                <li><xref href="#topic6108/problems" format="dita"/></li>
            </ul></section>
        <section id="changes">
            <title>Changes in this release</title>
            <p><!--From WR jow1404333830815.xml and added info--></p>
            <p>The following enhancements were added for the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0
                release:</p>
            <ul id="ul_ccj_3wm_vt">
                <li>Ironic Baremetal Region</li>
                <li>Support for Unbonded or Bonded NIC</li>
                <li>Support for Multiple NIC VMs</li>
            </ul>
            <p>The following enhancements were added for the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0
                Alpha release:</p>
            <ul id="ul_dcj_3wm_vt">
                <li>Support for ESX </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Virtual machine instantiation is enhanced to support:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_ecj_3wm_vt">
                        <li>
                            <p>CPU pinning</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>CPU up/down scaling</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>NUMA node awareness</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Multi-NUMA support</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Dedicated and configurable 2M and 1G huge pages</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>VM local storage support</p>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>To use shared VCPUs, a shared physical CPU must be designated. For more
                        information, see the <cite>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Administration
                            Guide: Designating Shared Physical CPUs on Compute Host</cite>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Extra-specification commands are revised for improved OpenStack
                        compatibility:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_fcj_3wm_vt">
                        <li>
                            <p>Custom <cmdname>nova flavor-create</cmdname> options are replaced by
                                    <b>nova flavor-key</b> options as follows:</p>
                            <simpletable id="simpletable_gcj_3wm_vt">
                                <sthead>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>nova flavor-create (removed)</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>nova flavor-key (added)</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                </sthead>
                                <strow>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>--vcpu-model</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>hw:cpu_model</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                </strow>
                                <strow>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>--dedicated-cpus &lt;true | false&gt;</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>hw:cpu-model &lt;dedicated | shared&gt;</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                </strow>
                                <strow>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>--guest-heartbeat</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>sw:wrs:guest-heartbeat</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                </strow>
                                <strow>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>--processor-node &lt;host-numa-node #&gt;</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                    <stentry>
                                        <p>hw:numa_node.&lt;guest-numa-node-#&gt; =
                                            &lt;host-numa-node-#&gt;</p>
                                    </stentry>
                                </strow>
                            </simpletable>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade-specific options are identified
                                using the string <b>wrs</b>:</p>
                            <ul id="ul_hcj_3wm_vt">
                                <li>
                                    <p>hw:wrs:min_vcpus</p>
                                </li>
                                <li>
                                    <p>hw:wrs:shared_vcpu</p>
                                </li>
                                <li>
                                    <p>hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler</p>
                                </li>
                                <li>
                                    <p>sw:wrs:guest-heartbeat</p>
                                </li>
                            </ul>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Networking capabilities are enhanced to support:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_icj_3wm_vt">
                        <li>
                            <p>Consolidated interfaces for OAM, management, infrastructure, and data
                                networks</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Accelerated virtual routing</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Distributed virtual routing</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>VXLAN networking</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>PCI Pass-through and SR-IOV support</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Mellanox CX-3 NICs</p>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                    <note>
                        <p>The syntax and GUI controls for adding and modifying interfaces are
                            revised substantially to accommodate logical interfaces and interface
                            consolidation.</p>
                    </note>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Management facilities are enhanced for:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_jcj_3wm_vt">
                        <li>
                            <p>Historical alarms</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>GUI-based patching</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>REST API patching access</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Customer logs</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Support for externally managed board management network</p>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>REST API extensions are added for Nova, Neutron, Cinder, and Ceilometer.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>HTTPS support is added for REST API access</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section id="usage"><title>Usage
                Caveats</title><p><!--From WR jow1404333831397.xml--></p><b>Backup files in cloud
                directories can cause installation to fail</b>
            <p>During the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation, you will need to create
                and eddit a number of JSON configuration files. You should create backups of these
                files, in the event you need to reinstall. Create the backups in a directory on
                    <codeph>/root/</codeph> directory or on a remote system. Do not store backups of
                the JSON files inside your cloud directory or any where inside the
                    <codeph>/var/hlm/clouds</codeph> directory. </p><p>
                <b>VMs reported as ACTIVE before compute nodes are recovered</b></p><p>During a
                system recovery (for example, after a site power outage), when the controller is
                available but before the compute nodes are available, the Nova service shows an
                    <b>Active</b> status for VMs . Until the compute nodes are available, this
                should be an <b>Error</b> status.</p><p>
                <b>Controller swact raises spurious ssh security warning</b></p><p>On ssh login to
                the active controller after a controller swact, a security warning appears, saying
                the host identification has changed. This occurs because the ssh keys are not
                currently synchronized across controllers. It can be disregarded. </p><p>
                <b>Mismatch of interface settings in LAG group</b></p><p>If the interfaces in a LAG
                group have mismatched speed or duplex settings, they are marked as incompatible by
                the system. To prevent this, ensure both interfaces in a LAG group use the same
                speed and duplex settings.</p><p>
                <b>Storage or compute node must be re-added after MAC address change on management
                    interface</b></p><p>For a compute or storage node, any change to the management
                interface configuration that results in a change of MAC address requires the node to
                be re-installed. The management interface MAC address can change if the physical
                Ethernet port is changed (for example, from eth1 to eth2), or if a LAG configuration
                is changed in a way that removes the Ethernet port associated with the LAG MAC
                address (for example, if the interface originally used for PXE boot is removed or
                replaced).</p><p>
                <b>Instance cannot be launched with a specified port ID</b></p><p>Use of the
                    <codeph>--port-id</codeph> parameter when launching an instance results in
                command failure.</p><p>
                <b>Live migration resets uptime</b></p><p>When a VM is live-migrated, the uptime
                reported for the VM is reset to 0.</p><p>
                <b>Interface network type cannot be changed directly from SRIOV to
                data</b></p><p>For an interface using network type "SRIOV," the network type must be
                changed to "none" before it can be changed to "data."</p><p>
                <b>Glance image deletion does not release storage space</b></p><p>The storage space
                used by a glance image is not released when the image is deleted. To free the space
                for other uses, a glance-api restart is required.</p></section>
        <section id="problems">
            <title>Known Problems and Limitations</title>
            <p><!--From jow1404333831397.xml and added info --></p>
            <p><b>Use the CLI with the KVM Region </b></p>
            <p>When working with the servers in the KVM region, do not use the Horizon interface.
                Please use the <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/"
                    format="html" scope="external">OpenStack command-line interface CLI
                    commands</xref>. </p>
            <p><b>Potential Vulnerability with Intel® LAN Products with SR-IOV</b></p>
            <p>In Intel® LAN products with SR-IOV capability, the potential exists where, under
                specific conditions, Virtual Machines (VMs) can cause network congestion spreading,
                a well-known side-effect of Ethernet flow control, which could affect other VMs as
                well as the Hypervisor itself.</p>
            <p>For more information, see the <xref
                    href="https://security-center.intel.com/advisory.aspx?intelid=INTEL-SA-00046&amp;languageid=en-fr"
                    format="html" scope="external">bulletin in the Intel Security Center</xref>.</p>
            <p id="passwprds"><b>Do not change OpenStack Service default passwords</b></p>
            <p>Changing the default password for Swift, Glance, Cinder results in failing of their
                respective cloud admin operations. </p>
            <p><!--HCG-919--></p>
            <p><b>Floating IP not working when SNAT is enabled</b></p>
            <!-- CG-1012 -->
            <p>When router is configured either centralized (server default) or distributed , it is
                seen that Floating IP is not working.</p>
            <p>To fix this issue, log onto <codeph>controller-0</codeph> for the KVM region and
                execute the following command to disable SNAT on the router:
                <codeblock>neutron router-update &lt;router-name> --external_gateway_info type=dict network_id=&lt;network-id>,enable_snat=False</codeblock></p>
            <p><b>Unable to create new users through the Horizon UI</b></p>
            <!-- CG-1042 -->
            <p>After logging into the Horizon interface as an <codeph>admin</codeph> user, an error
                occurs when you click <b>Create User</b> under the <b>Idenity</b> section.</p>
            <p>You can create users with the OpenStack Keystone CLI commands. For axample:</p>
            <codeblock>keystone user-create --name &lt;user-name> [--tenant &lt;tenant>][--pass [&lt;pass>]] [--email &lt;email>][--enabled &lt;true|false>]</codeblock>
            <p>For more information, see <xref
                    href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/keystoneclient_commands.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Command-Line Interface
                Reference</xref>.</p>
            <p><b>Unable to create new project through the Horizon Identity UI</b></p>
            <!-- CG-1041 -->
            <p>After logging into the Horizon interface as an <codeph>admin</codeph> user, an error
                occurs when you click <b>Create Project</b> under the <b>Idenity</b> section.</p>
            <p>You can create projects with the OpenStack Keystone CLI commands. For axample:</p>
            <codeblock>keystone tenant-create --name &lt;tenant-name>
                [--description &lt;tenant-description>]
                [--enabled &lt;true|false>]</codeblock>
            <p>For more information, see <xref
                    href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/keystoneclient_commands.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">OpenStack Command-Line Interface
                Reference</xref>.</p>
            <p><b>Cinder Volume Backup is not working upon cloud deployment</b></p>
            <!-- CG-410 -->
            <p>Cinder Volume Backup is not working upon installation of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
                Grade 2.0 The <codeph>cinder.backup.driver</codeph> file is not present in
                /etc/cinder/cinder.conf.</p>
            <p><b>Bonding on the control interface is not supported</b></p>
            <!-- CG-1052 -->
            <p>Due to an issue in <codeph>config_region</codeph> script, bonding on the control
                interface (hosts PXE, CLM, BLS, CAN networks) is not supported. A patch to support
                this feature is actively being worked upon. </p>
            <p>Because of this issue, the data interface on the compute node does support
                balanced-xor bonding mode and Active/Standby modes. </p>
            <p><b>StoreVirtual Cluster VIP not available on storage network. </b></p>
            <p>If you cannot ping a specific virtual IP address on a StoreVirtual server, locate the
                host with the associated IP and reboot that server.</p>
            <p><!--  CG-1306 --></p>
            <p><b>VXLAN not certified</b></p>
            <p>The VXLAN feature has not been certified for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
            <p>
                <b>Cinder Block Storage snapshot feature not working </b></p>
            <!-- CG-1043 -->
            <p>For HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade cloud using 3PAR iSCSI configured as the Cinder
                block storage service. The Cinder volume snapshot feature might not function
                properly if following entries are enabled in the
                    <codeph>/etc/cinder/cinder.conf</codeph> file. </p>
            <codeblock>hp3par_snapshot_retention=48
hp3par_snapshot_expiration=72</codeblock>
            <p> To correct this issue, edit the <codeph>/etc/cinder/cinder.conf</codeph> file to
                disable these entries by commenting-out the entries, as follows:</p>
            <codeblock>#hp3par_snapshot_retention=48
#hp3par_snapshot_expiration=72           </codeblock>
            <p>The <codeph>hp3par_snapshot_retention</codeph> entry is the time in hours to retain a
                snapshot.</p>
            <p>The <codeph>hp3par_snapshot_expiration</codeph> entry is the time in hours when a
                snapshot expires and is deleted. </p>
            <p> LDAP conflict causing error with templates</p>
            <p>When deploying templates, such as <codeph>VMAutoScaling.yaml</codeph> you might
                receive a n error similar to the following:
                <codeblock>Error: Can’t find role heat_stack_user </codeblock></p>
            <p>The problem is due to an inconsistency in the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade LDAP
                implementation. To fix this problem, you should disable LDAP in Keystone and create
                few roles as mentioned below. </p>
            <p>How you fix the problem depends upon whether your he HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
                Grade cloud is currently deployed.</p>
            <p><b><i>If the cloud is not deployed</i></b></p>
            <ol id="ol_lzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>If the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade cloud is not deployed, before deploying
                    edit the <codeph>definition.json</codeph> file to set
                        <codeph>ldap_enabled</codeph> to 0.
                        <codeblock>"ldap_enabled": 0,</codeblock><p>This setting causes the cloud to
                        deploy with SQL as Keystone backend instead of LDAP.</p></li>
                <li>After you deploy the cloud, create the following roles in the Keystone by
                    logging on to one of the controller nodes: <ol id="ol_mzl_ccw_c5">
                        <li>Source the stackrc file: <codeblock>source stackrc</codeblock></li>
                        <li>Execute the following command to create the heat_stack_owner role:
                            <codeblock>keystone role-create --name heat_stack_owner </codeblock></li>
                        <li>Execute the following command to create the heat_stack_owner role:
                            <codeblock>keystone role-create --name heat_stack_user</codeblock></li>
                    </ol></li>
            </ol>
            <p><i>
                    <b>If the cloud is currently deployed</b></i></p>
            <ol id="ol_nzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>After the cloud is deployed, on each controller, modify the
                        <codeph>/etc/keystone/keystone.conf</codeph> to comment-out the LDAP entry
                    and uncomment SQL driver, as shown:
                    <codeblock>    [identity]
    driver = keystone.identity.backends.sql.Identity
    #driver = keystone.identity.backends.ldap.Identity</codeblock></li>
                <li>Create the following roles in the Keystone by logging on to one of the
                    controller nodes: <ol id="ol_ozl_ccw_c5">
                        <li>Source the stackrc file: <codeblock>source stackrc</codeblock></li>
                        <li>Execute the following command to create the heat_stack_owner role:
                            <codeblock>keystone role-create --name heat_stack_owner </codeblock></li>
                        <li>Execute the following command to create the heat_stack_owner role:
                            <codeblock>keystone role-create --name heat_stack_user </codeblock></li>
                    </ol></li>
            </ol>
            <p><b>Non-shared services do not work from Horizon dashboard</b></p>
            <ol id="ol_kzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>Go to each controller node in the non-KVM region and replace
                        <codeph>user.py</codeph> file in the following location:
                        <codeph>/opt/stack/venvs/horizon/lib/python2.7/site-packages/openstack_auth/user.py</codeph></li>
                <li>Restart apache2 service</li>
            </ol>
            <p><b>LAG for the KVM region control plane does not work</b></p>
            <p>Link aggregation groups (LAG) are not supported in the KVM region control plane. This
                is a known limitation that is scheduled to be corrected with the HP Helion OpenStack
                Carrier Grade GA release. A LAG is a mechanism that allows multiple parallel
                Ethernet network connections between two hosts to be used as a single logical
                connection.</p>
            <p><b>SR-IOV limitations</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_pzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>
                    <p>SR-IOV is supported only for Intel 82599.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>The maximum number of VFs per NIC is 32.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>SR-IOV and PCI passthrough cannot both be used on the same provider
                        network.</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><b>Interface or interface consolidation limitations</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_qzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>
                    <p>VLAN over bonded interface without an assigned network type is not
                        supported.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Addition of an infrastructure interface after installation is not
                        functional.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Consolidation of the infrastructure network over the OAM network is not
                        supported.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Stacked VLANs are not supported. On a consolidated management or
                        infrastructure interface, a VLAN provider network can be associated directly
                        with the untagged interface; however, flat or VXLAN provider networks must
                        be associated with a consolidated VLAN data interface.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Interface profiles cannot be created for <!--AE and -->VLAN interface types.
                    </p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>The <cmdname>system host-if-modify-ports</cmdname> command is deprecated.
                    </p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><b>Mellanox limitations</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_rzl_ccw_c5">
                <li>
                    <p>For a Mellanox CX3, all ports must be used ether for data interfaces, or for
                        non-data interfaces. It is not possible to use some ports for data
                        interfaces and others for non-data interfaces on the same Mellanox CX3
                        NIC.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Jumbo frames are not supported on Mellanox NICs.</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p><b>Installation does not fully utilize disks greater than two terabytes</b></p>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in the KVM region can be installed on disks greater
                than 2 TB, but only 2 TB of the disk is useable.</p>
            <!-- Remove per Hrushi email 7-2
        
            <p><b>Cannot create Cinder LVM volumes using disks greater than two
                terabytes</b></p>
            <p>Using a disk greater than 2 TB for Cinder LVM results in a
                    <filepath>config_controller</filepath> failure.</p>
          -->
            <p><b>Guest heartbeat and notification features are not fully validated.</b></p>
            <p>Heartbeat and notification services for VMs are not fully validated. </p>
            <p><b>Cinder API version generates a log warning</b></p>
            <p>The V1 API for Cinder in use by this version of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is
                deprecated, resulting in log warnings.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
