<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3654">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Deploying Django applications</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Your app needs a top-level <i>wsgi.py</i> file with a global variable named
<codeph>application</codeph> that refers to your Django WSGI
application. The file should already exist in the Django project,
although a copy of it needs to be in the root directory in order for
Application Lifecycle Service to recognize it.</p>
<codeblock>django-admin.py startproject dj14
cd dj14
cp dj14/wsgi.py wsgi.py</codeblock>
<p>Typically, the <i>wsgi.py</i> file is just three lines of code:</p>
<codeblock>import os
import django.core.handlers.wsgi
application = django.core.handlers.wsgi.WSGIHandler()</codeblock>
<p>Your project must also have a <i>requirements.txt</i> file containing at
least the <codeph>django</codeph> project:</p>
<codeblock>cat requirements.txt
django==1.4
mysql-python</codeblock>
<section id="configuring-database"> <title>Configuring the Database</title>
  <p>See <xref href="../../../services/data-services.dita#user_data_services/using-external-databases" type="section">Using Configured Database Services</xref> for more information on connecting with database services.</p>
<ol>
<li> You must modify the <codeph>DATABASES</codeph> variable of your project's <i>settings.py</i> as
          shown below to detect the database service provisioned by Helion:<codeblock>import urlparse
DATABASES = {}
if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
        url = urlparse.urlparse(os.environ['DATABASE_URL'])
        DATABASES['default'] = {
                'NAME': url.path[1:],
                'USER': url.username,
                'PASSWORD': url.password,
                'HOST': url.hostname,
                'PORT': url.port,
                }
        if url.scheme == 'postgres':
                DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2'
        elif url.scheme == 'mysql':
                DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.mysql'
else:
        DATABASES['default'] = {
                'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
                'NAME': 'dev.db',
                'USER': '',
                'PASSWORD': '',
                'HOST': '', # Set to empty string for localhost.
                'PORT': '', # Set to empty string for default.
                }</codeblock><p>
            <note> In the future, this may be automatically written to <i>local_settings.py</i>
              (similar to ep.io and others)</note>
          </p></li>
<li> Then add a new dependency to
          <i>requirements.txt</i>:<codeblock>echo 'mysql-python' &gt;&gt; requirements.txt</codeblock></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="initializing-database"> <title>Initializing database</title>
<p>Run the <codeph>syncdb</codeph> command to initialize the database
tables:</p>
<codeblock>helion run &lt;appname&gt; python manage.py syncdb</codeblock>
<p>If you use a data migration library such as
<xref href="http://south.aeracode.org/" scope="external" format="html" >South</xref>, also run:</p>
<codeblock>helion run &lt;appname&gt; python manage.py migrate</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="configuring-static-media"> <title>Configuring static media</title>
<p>There are various ways to serve static files for a Django application. While Option #1 is the most recommended for production deployments, option #3 is the simplest for non-production/development/test/QA deployments.</p>
<ol>
<li>Directly serve static files with uWSGI. See <xref href="python_index.dita">
<i>Serving static files with uWSGI</i>
</xref> for details. or:</li>
<li>Use <codeph>django.contrib.staticfiles</codeph>, which is
included by default in recent versions of Django. Read the <xref href="https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/howto/static-files/" scope="external" format="html" >Django
documentation</xref>
to understand the steps involved, or take a look at <xref href="https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-samples/commit/59ec0791" scope="external" format="html" >this
commit</xref>
in the django-gtd sample app. or:</li>
<li>Set <codeph>DEBUG=True</codeph> in settings.py. This is not
recommended for production applications.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="configuring-project-location"> <title>Configuring project location</title>
<p>Your project's <i>settings.py</i> may not always reside at the root directory. Furthermore, you may want to extend <codeph>sys.path</codeph> to point to certain project sub-directories.</p>
<p>To persist such environment changes (across wsgi.py, settings.py, manage.py, etc.), add the following to manifest.yml:</p>
<codeblock>env:
  DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE: myproject.settings
  PYTHONPATH: myproject</codeblock>
<p>This assumes that your Django project lives under the <i>myproject/</i> sub-directory.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
