<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic11550">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Developing In Python</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Whether you're deploying an application to the HPE Helion Development Platform, a <tm tmtype="tm"
        >Cloud Foundry</tm>-based Platform as a Service (PaaS), or writing applications that take
      advantage of HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> to manage infrastructure or software
      services, tools to enable successful development are available in Python.</p>
<section id="application-lifecycle-services"> <title>Application Lifecycle Services </title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Services (ALS), a Cloud Foundry-based Platform as a Service, provides a
        means to execute Python applications on a managed platform. Deploying Python applications to
        the platform is normally done using a built-in <xref
          href="https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-python" scope="external"
          format="html">Python buildpack</xref>. In order to deploy an application user a Python
        buildpack, you will need the following at the top level of your application:</p>
      <ul id="ul_myg_1ll_ls">
        <li>A Procfile with the command to run the application. If the <codeph>wapiti.py</codeph>
          file was the file that started your application, you might use something
            like:<codeblock>web: python$PYTHON_VERSION wapiti.py</codeblock><p>in the
              <i>manifest.yml</i> file with at least your application name. You may also place other
            configuration information in this file such as module requirements. The minimal file
            would look like: </p><codeblock>name: wapiti</codeblock></li>
        <li>If your module requirements are not in the manifest.yml file, you might need a
          requirements.txt or requiremenbts.pypm (pypm) file. For example your requirements.txt may
          contain:<codeblock>cherrypy</codeblock></li>
        <li>
          <p>If the application is going to run some other version of Python other than Python 2.7
            (the default),  you will need to include a<i> runtime.txt</i> file.  If your application
            was to use Python 3.3, for example:</p>
          <codeblock>python-3.3</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p> Finally, you will need a file to launch your application. For this example, we have
            been talking about a <i>wapiti.py </i>file which would launch the application.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
<p>Use a web user interface or a command line client to manage the deployed application and its
        services.</p>

</section>
<section id="controlling-hp-helion-with-your-application"> <title>Controlling HPE Helion with your Application</title>
<p>If your Python application is going to control HPE Helion resources, it can communicate directly
  with the <xref href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#publiccloud/api.html" format="html">Helion REST APIs</xref> with a client or the Python SDK.
        Currently, the Python SDK is very limited in features, so you will probably be forced to use
        the CLIs. The unified Python Openstack Client has pretty good coverage of Openstack features
        except for network (Neutron) and object store (Swift). To get full coverage of features you
        would need to install the following CLIs in your requirements.txt file (using our earlier
        cherrypy example):</p>
<codeblock>import os
import cherrypy
import subprocess

class VolumeShow:
@cherrypy.expose
def index(self):
    return """
    &lt;html&gt;&lt;body&gt;
    &lt;form method='post' action='/posted/'&gt;
    User: &lt;input name="username"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    Password: &lt;input type="password" name="password"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    Project: &lt;input name="project"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    Auth URL: &lt;input name="url"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    Region: &lt;input name="region"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    Volume: &lt;input name="name"/&gt;&lt;br /&gt;
    &lt;input type='submit' value='Submit' /&gt;
    &lt;/form&gt;&lt;/body&gt;
    &lt;/html&gt;
    """

@cherrypy.expose
def posted(self, username, password, project, url, region, name):
    os.environ['OS_USERNAME'] = username
    os.environ['OS_PASSWORD'] = password
    os.environ['OS_REGION_NAME'] = region
    os.environ['OS_PROJECT_NAME'] = project
    os.environ['OS_AUTH_URL'] = url
    p = subprocess.Popen(["openstack", "volume", "show", name],
                         env=os.environ, stdout=subprocess.PIPE)
    result = p.communicate()[0]
    return "&lt;title&gt;Volume %s&lt;/title&gt;\n&lt;pre&gt;%s&lt;/pre&gt;" % (name, result)</codeblock>
<p>That example used the unified OpenStack CLI.  A similar thing would work for
the network or object store clients.</p>
<p>By default, Application Lifecycle Service uses the built-in Python
<xref href="../../buildpack.dita" >
<i>Buildpack</i>
</xref> to deploy Python
applications. To deploy applications using this buildpack, your
application will need the following in the root directory of the
application:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>a list of module requirements in a
<xref href="../../manifestyml.dita" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref>,
<xref href="http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/cookbook.html#requirements-files" type="section" scope="external" format="html" >requirements.txt
(pip)</xref>,
or <i>requirements.pypm</i> (<xref href="http://code.activestate.com/pypm/" scope="external" format="html" >pypm</xref>)
file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>a Procfile specifying the command to run the application server. For
example, the
<xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/example-python-django" scope="external" format="html" >example-python-django</xref>
Application Lifecycle Service sample has the following simple <i>Procfile</i>:</p>

<codeblock>web: gunicorn helion.wsgi -b 0.0.0.0:$PORT</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
<p>This buildpack uses Python 2.7 by default. To specify Python 3.3, create
a <i>runtime.txt</i> file setting the version (i.e. <codeph>python-3.3</codeph>) and use the \$PYTHON_VERSION environment variable in the
Procfile <codeph>web:</codeph> command. For example:</p>
<codeblock>web: python$PYTHON_VERSION app.py</codeblock>
<p>See also: <xref href="https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-python" scope="external" format="html" >https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-python</xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="python-with-the-legacy-buildpack"> <title>Python with the Legacy Buildpack</title>
<p>If your Python application has configuration for running on Application Lifecycle Service
  2.10 or earlier, you can deploy it using the <xref href="../../buildpack.dita#topic3370/legacy-buildpack" type="section"  >
<i>Legacy
Buildpack</i>
</xref>, which provides an
updated version of the old Python framework.</p>
<p>With the Legacy Buildpack, applications are run with
<xref href="http://projects.unbit.it/uwsgi/" scope="external" format="html" >uWSGI</xref>. Applications are started from
a top-level script called <codeph>wsgi.py</codeph> defining a
global <codeph>application</codeph> variable containing the WSGI
application object. For a minimal sample application, see
<xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/wsgi-helloworld" scope="external" format="html" >wsgi-helloworld</xref>.</p>
<p>You may add additional arguments to uWSGI in your
<codeph>manifest.yml</codeph>, eg:</p>
<codeblock>processes:
  web: $HELION_UWSGI --mount foo=app.py --import module</codeblock>
<p>It is possible to <xref href="#topic11550/serving-static-files-with-uwsgi" format="dita"><i>serve
            static files with uWSGI</i></xref> .</p>
</section>
<section id="django"> <title>Deploying Django applications</title>
<ul>
<li>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <xref
                href="django.dita"
                >Getting started</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref
                href="django.dita#topic3654/configuring-database"
                >Configuring database</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref
                href="django.dita#topic3654/configuring-static-media"
                >Configuring static media</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref
                href="django.dita#topic3654/configuring-project-location"
                >Configuring project location</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="application-url"> <title>Application URL</title>
<p>Some applications require the user to specify the APP_URL. Below is an
example on how to obtain the correct urls:</p>
<codeblock>import json
vcap_app = json.loads(os.environ['VCAP_APPLICATION'])
APP_URL = 'http://' + vcap_app['uris'][0]</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="database-services"> <title>Database Services</title>
<p>Some minor edits are required to make your application work with a
database. Python database configurations are located inside
<codeph>settings.py</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="database-url"> <title>DATABASE_URL</title>
<p>Authentication details for your configured database services can be
found in the <codeph>os.environ</codeph> variable, under
<codeph>DATABASE_URL</codeph>. Here is an example of getting the
correct credentials.</p>
<codeblock>import urlparse
DATABASES = {}
if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
    url = urlparse.urlparse(os.environ['DATABASE_URL'])
    DATABASES['default'] = {
        'NAME': url.path[1:],
        'USER': url.username,
        'PASSWORD': url.password,
        'HOST': url.hostname,
        'PORT': url.port,
        }
    if url.scheme == 'postgres':
        DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2'
    elif url.scheme == 'mysql':
        DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.mysql'
else:
    DATABASES['default'] = {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.sqlite3', # Add 'postgresql_psycopg2', 'postgresql', 'mysql', 'sqlite3' or 'oracle'.
        'NAME': 'dev.db',                      # Or path to database file if using sqlite3.
        'USER': '',                      # Not used with sqlite3.
        'PASSWORD': '',                  # Not used with sqlite3.
        'HOST': '',                      # Set to empty string for localhost. Not used with sqlite3.
        'PORT': '',                      # Set to empty string for default. Not used with sqlite3.
        }</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="vcap-services"> <title>VCAP_SERVICES</title>
<codeblock>import json
vcap_services = json.loads(os.environ['VCAP_SERVICES'])
srv = vcap_services['mysql'][0]
cred = srv['credentials']
DATABASES = {
    'default': {
        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
        'NAME': cred['name'],
        'USER': cred['user'],
        'PASSWORD': cred['password'],
        'HOST': cred['hostname'],
        'PORT': cred['port'],
    }
}</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="worker-applications"> <title>Worker Applications</title>
<p>Non-HTTP apps that run as an Application Lifecycle Service application under the control of
the Health Manager.</p>
<p>To deploy worker applications, you need to use the
  <xref href="../../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/command" type="section"   >
<i>command</i>
</xref> key and set the
  <xref href="../../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/web" type="section"   >
<i>processes:
web</i>
</xref> key to
Null ("\~").</p>
</section>
<section id="example"> <title>Example</title>
<codeblock>name: python-app
framework:
  type: python
  runtime: python27
command: python worker.py
processes:
  web: ~</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="serving-static-files-with-uwsgi"> <title>Serving Static Files with uWSGI</title>
<p>It is possible to serve static files with uWSGI using
<codeph>processes: web:</codeph> in the
<xref href="../../manifestyml.dita" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref> file to specify
folders that will be served statically and not by the app.</p>
<p>To make a single folder serve statically, use <codeph>--check-static</codeph>:</p>
<codeblock>processes:
    web: $HELION_UWSGI --check-static $HOME/&lt;folder&gt;</codeblock>
<p>To specify multiple folders with static files that do not share a common
root, use <codeph>--static-map</codeph>:</p>
<codeblock>processes:
    web: $HELION_UWSGI --static-map /foo=$HOME/static --static-map /bar=$HOME/sub</codeblock>
<p>In this case <i>/foo/index.html</i> would serve <i>\$HOME/static/index.html</i>,
and <i>/bar/index.html</i> would serve <i>\$HOME/sub/index.html</i>. If the file
doesn't exist, then uWSGI will forward the request to the app.</p>
<p>
        <note>Serving static files via uWSGI is only available for Perl and Python
          frameworks.</note>
      </p>
</section>
<section id="using-a-custom-web-server"> <title>Using a custom web server</title>
<p>To use a different web server instead of uWSGI, specify its startup command in
          <codeph>manifest.yml</codeph>. Here's a sample manifest.yml used to deploy a Django 1.8
        application named "dj14" using gunicorn (assuming pip version &lt; 1.4).</p>
<codeblock>name: dj14

framework:
  type: python

processes:
  web: gunicorn -b 0.0.0.0:$PORT dj14.wsgi

requirements:
  pypm: [gunicorn]
  pip: ["https://www.djangoproject.com/download/1.8.6/tarball/"]</codeblock>
<p>The custom web server must bind to IP address <codeph>0.0.0.0</codeph> and port <codeph>$PORT</codeph>. The same trick can be
used to serve non-WSGI applications (such as Tornado). See the
<xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bottle-py3" scope="external" format="html" >bottle-py3 example</xref> sample
for an example.</p>
</section>
<section id="installing-python-packages"> <title>Installing Python Packages</title>
<p>To install packages from custom repository/mirror, use the <xref href="#topic11550/pip"
          format="dita"><i>PIP_OPTS</i></xref> or <xref href="#topic11550/pypm" format="dita"
            ><i>PYPM_OPTS</i></xref>
        
          environment variables
        .</p>
<p>Application dependencies such as web frameworks or modules from PyPI can
  be installed using <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pypm" type="section"   >
<i>PyPM</i>
</xref>
  and/or <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pip" type="section"   >
<i>pip</i>
</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="pypm"> <title>PyPM</title>
  <p>Definition <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pypm" type="section"   >
<i>PyPM</i>
</xref>
</p>
<p>To install packages during application deployment with PyPM, add the
requirements to manifest.yml:</p>
<codeblock>requirements:
  pypm:
    - tornado
    - pymongo</codeblock>
<p>See the <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/tornado-chat-mongo/blob/master/manifest.yml" scope="external" format="html" >manifest.yml of
tornado-chat-mongo</xref>
sample app for an example.</p>
<p>Alternatively, you can list the modules in a top-level
<codeph>requirements-pypm.txt</codeph> file. The format is similar,
if not same, as <xref href="http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user_guide.html#requirements-files" type="section"  format="html" >pip requirements
files</xref> and
accepts version specification. The name of this file can be overridden by
setting the <codeph>PYPM_REQUIREMENTS_FILE</codeph> environment
variable.</p>
</section>
<section id="pip"> <title>pip</title>
  <p>Definition <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pip" type="section"   >
<i>pip</i>
</xref>
</p>
<p>In addition - or as alternative - to
  <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pypm" type="section"   >
<i>PyPM</i>
</xref>, your application
can also make use of pip to install certain dependencies. The above
tornado-chat-mongo sample installs "pycurl" using
  <xref href="../../../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-pip" type="section"   >
<i>pip</i>
</xref>:</p>
<codeblock>requirements:
  pypm:
    - tornado
    - pymongo
  pip:
    - pycurl</codeblock>
<p>If your application already contains a <codeph>requirements.txt</codeph> file, that will be automatically used to install dependencies;
no need to specify them manually in manifest.yml. The name of this file
can be overridden by setting the <codeph>PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE</codeph> environment variable.</p>
<p>
        <note>A <xref href="https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/219" scope="external" format="html"
            >bug in pip</xref> may prevent the log file from being accessed by <codeph>helion
            logs</codeph>.</note>
      </p>
</section>
<section id="pypy-support"> <title>PyPy Support</title>
<p>Here is an example of pushing an app using PyPy.</p>
<p>First, clone the <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/werkzeug-debugger" scope="external" format="html" >https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/werkzeug-debugger</xref>
repository.</p>
<p>Then add the following <codeph>BUILDPACK_URL</codeph> to the
<i>manifest.yml</i> file:</p>
<codeblock>env:
  BUILDPACK_URL: github.com/mtigas/heroku-buildpack-pypy.git</codeblock>
<p>Finally, push the app to Application Lifecycle Service:</p>
<codeblock>helion push -n</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="other-python-frameworks"> <title>Other Python Frameworks</title>
<p>Examples of deploying other frameworks are included in the <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps" scope="external" format="html" >GitHub
samples repo</xref>:</p>
<ul>
<li>Bottle framework <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bottle-currency" scope="external"
                format="html">Bottle Currency</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bottle-py3" scope="external"
                format="html">Python 3</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Django <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/django-gtd" scope="external"
                format="html">django-gtd</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/pinax-social" scope="external"
                format="html">pinax-social</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Pylons Pyramid <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/pyramid-virginia" scope="external"
                format="html">virginia</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/pyramid-default" scope="external"
                format="html">default</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Tornado <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/tornado-chat-mongo" scope="external"
                format="html">chat</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Werkzeug <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/werkzeug-debugger" scope="external"
                format="html">werkzeug-debugger</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Celery

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/celery-examples" scope="external" format="html" >celery-demo</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
