<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_imy_zwl_nt">
 <title>Starting the VM</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>On first boot, the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM generates a hostname in the form
    <codeph>stackato-xxxx.local</codeph>. This hostname is displayed on the hypervisor console. It
   receives its IP address via DHCP and broadcasts the generated hostname on the local subnet via
    <b>multicast DNS</b>.</p>
  <p>You will use this hostname to open the <b>Management Console</b> in a browser or to connect to
   the <b><keyword keyref="prodShort"/> CLI client</b>. </p>
  <note>The default password for the <keyword keyref="defaultSysUser"/> system user is
    <codeph>hcf</codeph><!--Check-->. This password is changed automatically when you set up the
   first administrative user in the Management Console. Once you set up the primary administrator
   account, use that account password to log in from the command line.</note>
  <section>
   <title>NAT vs. Bridged Networking</title>
   <p>The VMware and VirtualBox start virtual machines with <b>NAT</b> networking enabled by
    default.</p>
   <p>If you use VirtualBox to run the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM, configure
     <uicontrol>Bridged</uicontrol> networking before starting the VM. To run in
     <uicontrol>NAT</uicontrol> mode, configure port forwarding as described in the <xref
     href="http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch06.html#network_nat" format="html" scope="external"
     >VirtualBox documentation</xref>.</p>
   <note type="important">
    <p>Bridged networking exposes the VM to your local network through the hypervisor host system.
     This makes it easier to connect to <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> servers running on other
     hosts. However, this should be done only on trusted networks.</p>
    <p>NAT networking exposes the VM only to the host system (unless routing through the host is
     configured). This configuration is recommended if you are operating on an untrusted
     network.</p>
   </note>
   <note>
    <p>Multiple hosts broadcasting the same name via mDNS on the same network can cause confusion
     and network problems. If you plan on running multiple Stackato micro clouds on one network,
     follow these guidelines:</p>
    <ul id="ul_fll_b1m_nt">
     <li>Ensure that the MAC address of each virtual machine is unique</li>
     <li>If the hostname is not unique, do one of the following:<ul id="ul_kx5_f1m_nt">
       <li><b>Change the hostname</b></li>
       <li>Use NAT networking</li>
       <li><b>Configure DNS manually</b></li>
      </ul></li>
    </ul>
   </note>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>DNS vs. mDNS</title>
   <p>By default, the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM broadcasts its generated hostname via
    multicast DNS. This mDNS/DNS-SD broadcast address (for example,
     <codeph>stackato-xxxx.local</codeph>) is intended for micro clouds running on a local machine
    or subnet. To use the VM on a remote subnet, the server may need one or more of the
    following:</p>
   <ul id="ul_z3h_m1m_nt">
    <li><b>A wildcard DNS A or CNAME record</b></li>
    <li><b>A fixed IP address</b></li>
    <li><b>A hostname that works with xip.io</b></li>
    <li><b>A modified Windows <codeph>hosts</codeph> file</b></li>
   </ul>
   <p>For instructions on setting up the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM in these situations, see
    the <b>Detailed Configuration</b>.</p>
   <note>
    <p>Windows does not properly support mDNS hostname resolution. You will need to use the xip.io
     service, <b>update the Windows hosts file</b>, or create a DNS record in order to target the
     API endpoint, push applications, and resolve the deployed applications.</p>
   </note>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
