<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2004">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating and Deleting Projects</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Projects/1.1commercial.dashboard.projects.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/projects/creating/--></p>
<p>As an admin, you can <xref type="section" href="#topic2004/projectcreate">create</xref> and <xref type="section" href="#topic2004/projectsdel">delete</xref> projects.</p>
<section id="projectcreate"> <title>Create a project</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Projects</b> link on the <b>Admin</b> dashboard <b>Identity</b> panel.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Projects</b> panel, click <b>Create Project</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Project Info</b> tab of the <b>Create Project</b> screen:</p>

<p>a. Enter a unique name for the project.
b, Enter an identifying description for the project.
c. Leave <b>Enabled</b> selected to create an active project or clear the option to create a</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project Members</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Project Members</b> tab select the users who can access the project by clicking the <b>+</b> icon for each user.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Quotas</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Optionally, specify operational quotas for the project.     Metadata Items - Enter the maximum number of metadata items allowed per instance.</p>

<ul>
<li>VCPUs Enter the maximum number of instance cores allowed for the project.</li>
<li>Instances Enter the maximum number of instances allowed for the project.</li>
<li>Injected Files Enter the maximum number of injected files allowed for the project.</li>
<li>Injected File Content Bytes Enter the maximum number of content bytes allowed per injected file.</li>
<li>RAM Enter the maximum megabytes of instance RAM allowed for the project.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Project</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="projectdel"> <title>Delete a project</title>
<p>As an admin, you can delete projects. Compute instances associated with a project will not be deleted.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Projects</b> link on the <b>Admin</b> dashboard <b>Identity</b> panel.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the project you want to delete, click <b>More &gt; Delete Project</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Project</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The project is no longer available.  <xref type="section" href="#topic2004"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
