<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cloudPlatform">
  <title>Platform Configuration</title>
  <body><section>A complete <codeph>clouds.yaml </codeph>file is <xref href="fullFile.dita"
        >available here</xref> for reference.</section>
    <section>
      <p>Populating this section of the <codeph>clouds.yaml </codeph>file is required for the HDPI
        and the Application Lifecycle Service. Installing the other services requires additional
        sections as documented in the installation procedure for that service. All fields are
        required unless otherwise indicated.<note type="important">This section begins at the left
          margin. All other sections begin indented two spaces; look at the <xref
            href="fullFile.dita">complete file</xref> to see how all the sections fit
          together.</note></p>
      
      <codeblock id="cloudplatform">clouds:
  mycloud:
    codn_username: 
    codn_password: 
    region_name: region1
    cacert: 
    auth:
      auth_url: https://##.##.###.#:#####/v3 (or v2, depending on the version of Keystone authentication in use)
      project_name: &lt;admin project name&gt;
      username: &lt;admin user name&gt;
      password: &lt;admin password&gt;</codeblock>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>codn_username</dt> <dd>The username for the HDN (Helion Download Network)
          account. (The name of the download network used to be CODN.)</dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry><dt>codn_password</dt><dd> The password for the HDN (Helion Download Network)
          account. (The name of the download network used to be CODN.)</dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry><dt>region_name</dt><dd>Default value is <codeph>region1 </codeph></dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry><dt>cacert</dt><dd>The location where the SSL certificates can be accessed.</dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>auth_url</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Note that this must be <codeph>https</codeph>, not simply <codeph>http</codeph>. This
              is the value of the <codeph>OS_AUTH_URL</codeph> variable from
                <codeph>~/service.osrc</codeph>
            </p>
            <p>Example:</p>
            <p>
              <pre>user@host:~$ grep OS_AUTH_URL ~/service.osrc</pre>
              <pre>export OS_AUTH_URL=https://10.22.200.2:35357/v3</pre>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>project_name</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>This is the value of the <codeph>OS_PROJECT_NAME</codeph> variable from
              <codeph>~/service.osrc</codeph></p>
            <p>Example:<pre>user@host:~$ grep OS_PROJECT_NAME ~/service.osrc</pre><pre>export OS_PROJECT_NAME=admin</pre></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>username</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The Username of an account with installation privileges (administrator role). This is
              the value of the <codeph>OS_USERNAME</codeph> variable from
                <codeph>~/service.osrc</codeph></p>
            <p>Example:</p>
            <p>
              <pre>user@host:~$ grep OS_USERNAME ~/service.osrc</pre>
              <pre>export OS_USERNAME=admin</pre>
            </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>password</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The Password for the same account with installation privileges (administrator role).
              This is the value of the <codeph>OS_PASSWORD </codeph>variable from
                <codeph>~/service.osrc</codeph></p>
            <p>Example:<pre>user@host:~$ grep OS_PASSWORD ~/service.osrc</pre><pre>export OS_PASSWORD=verystrongpassword</pre></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry></dl>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
