<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2639">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Replacing Active Storage Nodes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-storage.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/active/storage/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>On systems that use a Ceph backend for Cinder storage, you can add or replace storage disks or swap a storage node while the system is running, even if the storage resources are in active use.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>A HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade system with a Ceph storage backend uses exactly two storage nodes; you cannot add or remove storage nodes. However, you can add disks to a storage node to increase capacity, and you can replace a faulty host.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> The storage node pair in a HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade system provides redundancy for High Availability. A balanced storage capacity is recommended, in which each host has sufficient independent
resources to meet the operational requirements of the system.</p>
<p>To replace a storage node on an active system:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>

<ul>
<li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change, either: the hLinux region or the Wind River Linux region.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>System Inventory</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita" >Lock the standby controller</xref> by clicking <b>More</b> then <b>Lock Host</b> for the controller.</p>

<p>Wait for the procedure to be completed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#power" >Power down the standby controller</xref> and make any required hardware changes.</p>

<p>This may involve replacing disks, or replacing the host completely.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Place the new or modified controller into service.</p>

<p>To begin using the new disk, <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#power" >power up the host</xref> and <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita" >unlock</xref> the host.</p>

<ul>
<li>For disk replacement, no additional configuration changes are needed. </li>
<li>For disk addition, you must create a new storage volume (OSD) before you can use the new disk. For more information, see the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade Software Installation Guide: Creating Storage Volumes.</li>
<li>For host replacement, you must <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#delete" >delete the existing host</xref> using <b>More</b> then <b>Delete Host</b>. Then you must initialize the new host with a personality as a storage node, configure its interfaces, and create storage volumes. </li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<p>For more information on initializing and configuring a storage node, see <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-initialize-storage.dita" >Initializing and Configuring Storage Nodes</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2639/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
