<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3241">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Locking and Unlocking a System</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/inventory/lock/--></p>
<p>You can lock and unlock a system, for example when you need to make a change to the system.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3241/lock">Lock a system</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3241/unlock">Unlock a system</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3241/force">Forcing a Host Lock</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="lock"> <title>Lock a system</title>
<p>You can lock a host in order to bring the host out of service.</p>
<p>On a controller node, the state transition only succeeds if there are no services running in active mode on the host.</p>
<p>On a compute node, the state transition only succeeds if all currently running instances on the host can be live-migrated to alternative compute nodes. Live-migration of the virtual machine instances is initiated automatically by the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade as soon as the state transition is requested.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Inventory</b> on the <b>System Panel</b> section of the <b>Admin</b> menu, and then selecting the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Hosts</b> list, for the system to lock, select Lock Host from the <b>More</b> menu.</p>

<p>Wait for the host to be reported as Locked</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You can try to lock a host from the controller's command line, as follows:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>system host-lock hostname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="unlock"> <title>Unlock a host</title>
<p>Used to bring a host into service. The first step is to reset the target host to ensure that it starts from a wellknown state. The host is automatically configured, and any required software patches are applied.</p>
<p>The state transition only succeeds if all the necessary configuration components for the host are already in place. For example, the state transition is rejected on a compute node for which no data interfaces are defined.</p>
<p>To unlock the host:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Clicking <b>Inventory</b> on the <b>System Panel</b> section of the <b>Admin</b> menu, and then selecting the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Hosts</b> list, for the system to lock, select <b>Unlock Host</b> from the <b>More</b> menu.</p>

<p>Wait for the host to be reported as unlocked</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You can unlock a host from the controller's command line, as follows:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>system host-unlock hostname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="force"> <title>Forcing a Host Lock</title>
<p>If for some reason, the Lock Host command does not lock the host, you can force a lock. When selected, the system displays a warning message appropriate to the personality of the host. Use this option with caution.</p>
<p>To force a lock on the host:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Clicking <b>Inventory</b> on the <b>System Panel</b> section of the <b>Admin</b> menu, and then selecting the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Hosts</b> list, for the system to lock, select <b>Force Lock Host</b> from the <b>More</b> menu.</p>

<p>Wait for the host to be reported as Locked</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You can force lock a host from the controller's command line, as follows:
~(keystone_admin)$ system host-lock --force hostname
Note that a force lock operation on a compute node causes an immediate service outage on all hosted
virtual machines.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3241"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
