<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4032">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Managing Hosts on an Active System</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/active/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>You can add or remove hosts and change disks without interrupting the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade.</p>
<p>To make changes to a host, you must lock it. Locking a host automatically and seamlessly redirects activity to other available hosts. While the host is locked, you can safely power it down and make disk changes, or remove the host and insert a new one.</p>
<p>After making the required configuration changes, you can unlock the host and begin using it.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-controller.dita" >Replacing Active Controller Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-storage.dita" >Replacing Active Storage Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-compute.dita" >Managing Active Compute Nodes</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-compute.dita#removing" >Removing Compute Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-compute.dita#adjust" >Adjusting Resources on a Compute Node</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Managing Compute Nodes
The compute nodes in HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade form a resource pool for hosting guest instances. You can
manage this pool by managing the hosts.
You can change the resource pool in several ways:
* You can add or remove hosts to increase or decrease the size of the pool.
* You can replace a host with another that has different resources (for example, memory, or number of CPU cores).
* You can adjust the resources on an existing host.
* You can replace a failed compute node host with an equivalent.
Caution:
When replacing or adjusting a host, ensure that the overall resource pool still meets the requirements for your
system.
HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta) Administration Guide | Managing Hardware Resources | 99
Complete instructions for adding a compute node are provided in the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade Software
Installation Guide: Initializing and Configuring Compute Nodes.
Removing Compute Nodes
You can remove a compute node from the pool of available resources.
You may need to remove a compute node in order to replace a failed host, or to change the configuration of a host. If
the host is active, you can migrate instances on it by locking the host.
Caution:
Before locking a host, ensure that sufficient resources are available on other hosts to migrate any running
instances.
1. Lock the host to be removed.
Open the Hosts list by clicking Inventory on the System Panel section of the Admin menu, and then selecting
the Hosts tab.
Click More &gt; Lock Host for the host.
Wait for the procedure to be completed.
2. Delete the host from the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade system.
Click More &gt; Delete Host for the host.
3. Power down the host and remove the hardware from the cluster.
Adjusting Resources on a Compute Node
You can adjust the resources of a compute node while it is offline.
1. Lock the host to make changes.
a) On the Admin pane of the web administration interface, in the System Panel section, select Inventory.
b) Select the Hosts tab.
c) Open the More drop-down list for the host, and then select Lock Host.
d) Wait for the host to be reported as Locked.
2. Power off the host.
3. Make any required resource changes (for example, BIOS changes required for proper operation).
If you are adding a disk to provide additional local storage for VMs, you can install an unpartitioned disk. New
disks are detected by the compute node operating system and automatically configured with a single partition.
4. Power on the host, and wait for it to reboot fully.
When the host is fully rebooted, it is shown as Locked, Enabled, and Available in the Hosts list.
Note:
Do not unlock the host until it is fully rebooted.
5. Unlock the host.
The host is rebooted a second time.
When the host is reported as Unlocked, Enabled, and Available, it is ready for use with the adjusted resources.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4032"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
