<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1730">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Viewing Host Port Details</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-inventory-detail-ports.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/inventory/ports/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The tab Ports on the Inventory Detail page presents information about the physical ports on a host, as illustrated below.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Currently none of the port attributes is configurable; they are all read directly from the hardware.</p>
<p>To view the host ports:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>System Inventory</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the Host Name column, click the name of the locked host to open the <b>Inventory Detail</b> page for that host.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Ports</b> tab.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Port information is presented in several columns, as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>Name - The name of the physical port, as identified by the host's Linux kernel.</li>
<li>MAC Address - The port's unique MAC address.</li>
<li>PCI Address - The port's unique address on the PCI bus. Together with the MAC address, this field can be used to uniquely identify a port on the host's hardware platform.</li>
<li>Processor - The processor node that the port's IO controller is connected to.</li>
<li>Auto Negotiation - The status of the Ethernet auto-negotiation flag. Currently, auto-negotiation is always enabled.</li>
<li>Boot Interface - The boot flag, whether or not PXE booting is enabled.</li>
<li>Device Type - Hardware information about the port type, manufacturer, and model.</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1730/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
