<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reconfig_metering">
  <title>HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 2.0: Configure, Upgrade or Reconfigure Metering</title>
  <body>

    <section id="deploy"><title>Deployment</title> Helion OpenStack v2.0 automatically deploys
      Ceilometer to use the shared MySQL database along with other OpenStack services such as
      Keystone. Ceilometer is configured to use a common MySQL database and deployed on the same
      control plane nodes along with other OpenStack services such as Keystone, Nova, Neutron,
      Glance, Swift etc. </section>

    <section id="apache"><title>Configure Apache2 for the Ceilometer API</title> The first step to
      execute is to add the ceilometer_modwsgi.conf file in the /etc/apache2/sites-available folder.
      The ceilometer_modwsgi.conf should have added the following data: ceilometer.conf
      <codeblock>Listen &lt;ipaddress>:8777 
&lt;VirtualHost *:8777>
  WSGIScriptAlias / /opt/stack/service/ceilometer-api-20151021T030442Z/venv/bin/../lib/python2.7/site-packages/ceilometer/api/app.wsgi
  WSGIDaemonProcess ceilometer user=ceilometer group=ceilometer processes=4 threads=5 socket-timeout=600 python-path=/opt/stack/service/ceilometer-api-20151021T030442Z/venv/bin/../:/opt/stack/service/ceilometer-api-20151021T030442Z/venv/bin/../lib/python2.7/site-packages
  WSGIApplicationGroup ceilometer
  WSGIProcessGroup ceilometer
  ErrorLog /var/log/ceilometer/ceilometer_modwsgi.log
  LogLevel INFO
  CustomLog /var/log/ceilometer/ceilometer_access.log combined
  &lt;Directory /opt/stack/service/ceilometer-api-20151021T030442Z/venv/bin/../lib/python2.7/site-packages/ceilometer>
    Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
    Require all granted
    AllowOverride None
    Order allow,deny
    allow from all
    LimitRequestBody 102400
  &lt;/Directory>
&lt;/VirtualHost>&lt;/ipaddress></codeblock>
      The Ceilometer APIs are running as WSGI processes. Each process can have a certain number of
      threads taking care of the filters and applications comprising the processing pipeline. This
      file is configured during HP Helion OpeStack deployment and preferably should be changed by
      running the <b>ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</b> playbook (see the <xref
        href="#reconfig_metering/reconfig" format="dita">Reconfigure</xref> section below). This
      configuration refers to installed ceilometer api version and needs to be referenced
      appropriately based on the version installed and needs to be used. The main parameters that
      can be altered to increase the responsiveness is processes and threads in the above mentioned
      config file. <note>WSGIDaemon Recommended Settings The best, and hence, recommended
        configuration is to have four processes running in parallel: Recommended number of processes
        to be set in <b>ceilometer.conf </b><codeblock>processes=4</codeblock> and for each process,
        a maximum of 5 threads: Recommended number of threads per process
        <codeblock>threads=5</codeblock></note>
    </section>


    <section id="softlink"><title>Add softlink for config file</title> Next, create/add a softlink
      for the ceilometer_modwsgi.conf in the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled folder. Add softlink to
      celiometer.conf
      <codeblock>ln -s /etc/apache2/sites-available/ceilometer_modwsgi.conf /etc/apache2/sites-enabled</codeblock>
      or alternatively you can run <codeblock>a2ensite ceilometer_modwsgi.conf  </codeblock>
    </section>


    <section id="apachereload"><title>Reload Apache2</title>
      <p> For the changes to take effect, the apache2 service needs to be reloaded. This ensures
        that all the configuration changes are considered and the service has applied them. The
        system administrator can change the configuration of processes and threads and experiment if
        alternative settings if necessary.</p> The command to reload the apache2 service is the
      following: <codeblock>sudo service apache2 reload</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="verify"><title>Verification</title> Once the Apache2 service has been reloaded it
      will be possible to test that the Ceilometer APIs are running and able to receive incoming
      traffic. The Ceilometer APIs listen on port 8777. Verification can be performed using the
      following command to get Apache2 with Ceilometer running instances :
      <codeblock>ps -ef | grep apache </codeblock> This should generate an output similar to the one
      below if everything is in order:
      <codeblock>ceilome+ 31430 31427 10 16:29 ? 00:02:40 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
ceilome+ 31431 31427 10 16:29 ? 00:02:41 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
ceilome+ 31432 31427 10 16:29 ? 00:02:42 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
ceilome+ 31433 31427 10 16:29 ? 00:02:43 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start </codeblock>
      The list of entries in the above output SHOULD match the number of processors set in the
      configuration file, in the recommended case 4. Also it is possible to verify that Apache2 is
      accepting incoming traffic on port 8777: <codeblock>netstat -tulpn | grep 8777 </codeblock>
      This should produce the following output:
      <codeblock>tcp6 0 0 :::8777 :::* LISTEN 8959/apache2 </codeblock> If Ceilometer fails to
      deploy, check the proxy setting, and unset https_proxy http_proxy HTTP_PROXY HTTPS_PROXY </section>

    <section id="metering_services"><title>Enabling Services for Messaging Notifications</title>
      Nova, Cinder, Glance, Neutron and Swift are already enabled to send notifications out of the
      box in HP Helion OpenStack 2.0. The list of meters supported out of the box for these services
      are listed in the Notification Agent or Central Agent's pipeline coniguration. </section>

    <section id="upgrade">
      <title>Upgrade</title> Follow Standard Service upgrade mechanism available in HLM
      distribution. For ceilometer the playbook included with HOS is ceilometer-upgrade.yml </section>


    <section id="reconfig"><title>Reconfigure</title> Make changes in the ceilometer available
      configuration files at on deployer machine. Make changes in the target configuration file
      found is these directories. <p>For a temporary change go
      to:</p><codeblock>cd /home/stack/scratch/ansible/next/my_cloud/config/ceilometer/</codeblock>
      For a persistent change, go to
      <codeblock>cd /home/stack/helion/my_cloud/config/ceilometer/</codeblock> After making your
      changes, run the <b>ceilometer-reconfigure.yml
      </b>playbook<codeblock>cd /home/stack/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
