<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_icq_hvc_5t">
  <title>HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 2.0: Ceilometer Metering APIs</title>
  <body>
    <section id="pipeline"><title>Separate pipeline.yml for Ceilometer Post Samples API</title> Post
      Sample API is disabled by default in HOS CM 2.0 and its configured with a pipeline
      configuration different than the agents. The api pipeline has no meters enabled, so it needs
      to be configured with meters when the Post Samples API is enabled. Exercise caution when
      adding meters to the API pipeline. Ensure that only those meters are added to this pipeline
      which are already present in the notification agent and the central agent pipeline.
        <p>Ceilometer API (ceilometer-api) pipeline.yml is located at
          /<b>opt/stack/service/ceilometer-api/etc/pipeline-api.yml</b></p> Here is a sample of the
      API pipeline:
      <codeblock>---
sources:
    - name: meter_source
      interval: 30
      meters:
          - "instance"
          - "ip.floating"
          - "network"
          - "network.create"
          - "network.update"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
    - name: image_source
      interval: 30
      meters:
          - "image"
          - "image.size"
          - "image.upload"
          - "image.delete"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
    - name: volume_source
      interval: 30
      meters:
          - "volume"
          - "volume.size"
          - "snapshot"
          - "snapshot.size"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
    - name: swift_source
      interval: 3600
      meters:
          - "storage.objects"
          - "storage.objects.size"
          - "storage.objects.containers"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
sinks:
    - name: meter_sink
      transformers:
      publishers:
         - notifier://</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="sampleAPI"><title>Ceilometer Sample API</title>
      <p>Ceilometer Sample has two APIs: <ul>
          <li>ceilometer sample-list(/v2/samples) </li>
          <li>ceilometer query-sample (/v2/query/samples)</li>
        </ul> ceilometer sample-list allows querying based on <ul>
          <li>meter name</li>
          <li>user_id</li>
          <li>project_id</li>
          <li>sample source</li>
          <li>resource_id</li>
          <li>sample timestamp (range)</li>
          <li>sample message_id</li>
          <li>resource metadata attributes</li>
        </ul> ceilometer sample-list uses AND implicitly. However, query-sample allows finer control
        over the filter expression by allowing the use of AND, OR, and NOT operators over any of the
        sample, meter or resource attributes.</p>
      <b>Limitations:</b>
      <p> Its been observed that ceilometer query-sample API uses anonymous/alias table to cache the
        JOIN query results and concurrent requests to this API can use up the disk space and can
        cause service interruptions; hence it has been disabled for stability of the system.
        </p><p>Although sample list allows you to query the sample data as well, the limitation here
        is that it uses the AND operator for all the passed query arguments implicitly; however it
        allows you to query on resource metadata field of samples as well.</p> The standard format
      for queries via the CLI:
      <codeblock>ceilometer sample-list -m METER_NAME -q '&lt;field1>&lt;operator1>&lt;value1>;...;&lt;field_n>&lt;operator_n>&lt;value_n>'</codeblock>
      where operators can be:<b> &lt;, &lt;=, =, !=, >= ></b>
      <p>All the key value pairs will be combined with implicit AND operator. Some example usage for
        the sample list API are</p>
      <codeblock>ceilometer sample-list --meter image.serve -q 'resource_id=a1ec2585' </codeblock>
      <codeblock>ceilometer sample-list --meter instance -q 'resource_id=&lt;ResourceID>;metadata.event_type=&lt;eventType>'</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="statAPI"><title>Ceilometer Statistics API</title>
      <p>Ceilometer Statistics is an open-ended query API and thus can put a significant load on the
        database leading to unexpected results and or failures. Ceilometer Statistics API performs
        queries on the sample table and obtains the minimum and maximum timestamp for the meter that
        is being queried.</p> Based on the minimum and maximum timestamp it returns a few statistics <ul>
        <li> If a period parameter is not supplied it simply returns few statistics like min, max,
          avg and sum</li>
        <li> If a period parameter is supplied then it divides the range into equal periods and
          finds the count,min, max, avg and sum for each of the periods</li>
      </ul> It is recommended that you always provide a query parameter with
      <codeblock>timestamp>={$start-timestamp} and timestamp&lt;{$end-timestamp} </codeblock> to
      cover a time period of at most 1 day (24 hours) irrespective of whether you provide a period
      or or not. Here is an example using the period parameter
      <codeblock>ceilometer statistics -q "timestamp>=2014-12-11T00:00:10;timestamp&lt;2014-12-11T23:00:00" -m "instance" -p 3600</codeblock>
      Without period parameter:
      <codeblock>ceilometer statistics -q "timestamp>=2014-12-11T00:00:10;timestamp&lt;2014-12-11T23:00:00" -m "instance"</codeblock>
      The recommended values for query (-q) parameter and period (-p) parameters are: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>-q</dt>
          <dd>Always provide a timestamp range, which restricts the query to one day (24 hours). It
            is not recmmended that you set the timestamp range to greater than a day or provide no
            time stamp range. An acceptable range looks like
            this:<codeblock>            -q "timestamp>=2014-12-11T00:00:10;timestamp&lt;2014-12-11T23:00:00"</codeblock>
            If the query parameter and timestamp are not provided, all the records in the database
            will be queried. This is not recommended.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>-p</dt>
          <dd>Provide a fairly large number for period; the recommended value is 3600 or more (1
            hour or more). Providing a period of less than 3600 is not recommended. e.g. -p 3600
            Period parameter (value in seconds) is used to divide the overall time range into
            intervals. A small period value will translate into huge number of queries against the
            database, which is not recommended.</dd>
        </dlentry>


      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="disabled"><title>Disabled APIs</title> The Ceilometer metering APIs disabled in
      this release are: <ul>
        <li>Ceilometer Alarms API</li>
        <li>Post Samples API</li>
        <li>Query Sample API</li>
      </ul> They are disabled via a custom rule, hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented, which is added to
      each of those APIs in Ceilometer's policy.json. (<b>/etc/ceilometer/policy.json</b> on
      controller nodes). Attempts to access any of the Alarm APIs, Post Meter API or Query-sample
      API will result in an HTTP response 501 Not Implemented.<p>To manually enable any of the APIs, remove the corresponding rule and restart Apache</p>
      <codeblock>{
	"context_is_admin": "role:admin",
	"context_is_project": "project_id:%(target.project_id)s",
	"context_is_owner": "user_id:%(target.user_id)s",
	"segregation": "rule:context_is_admin",
	 
	"telemetry:create_samples": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	 
	"telemetry:get_alarm": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:change_alarm": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:delete_alarm": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:alarm_history": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:change_alarm_state": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:get_alarm_state": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:create_alarm": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:get_alarms": "hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"telemetry:query_sample":"hp_disabled_rule:not_implemented",
	"default": ""
}</codeblock>
      The following Alarm APIs are disabled <ul>
        <li>POST /v2/alarms </li>
        <li>GET /v2/alarms </li>
        <li>GET /v2/alarms/(alarm_id) </li>
        <li>PUT /v2/alarms/(alarm_id) </li>
        <li>DELETE /v2/alarms/(alarm_id) </li>
        <li>GET /v2/alarms/(alarm_id)/history </li>
        <li>PUT /v2/alarms/(alarm_id)/state </li>
        <li>GET /v2/alarms/(alarm_id)/state </li>
        <li>POST /v2/query/alarms </li>
        <li>POST /v2/query/alarms/history</li></ul>
      In addition, these APIs are disabled:
      <ul>
        <li>Post Sampes API: POST /v2/meters/(meter_name)</li>
        <li>Query Sample API: POST /v2/query/samples</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Data Access API</title>
    
    
    
    Ceilometer only provides a data access API.  It does not by itself provide a data visualization or aggregation function.
    These functions are provided by external, downstream applications that support various use cases like usage billing and 
    software license policy adherence. Each application calls the specific Ceilometer API needed for their use case.  
    The resultant data is then aggregated and visualized based on the unique functions provided by each application.  More information
    about the Ceilometer API can be found at http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ceilometer/webapi/v2.html.
    
    
    
    
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
