<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zx2_mmd_5t">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Ceilometer Metering Failover HA Support</title>
  <body>
    <section> In the HP Helion OpenStack environment, the Ceilometer metering service supports
      native Active-Active HA for notification agent and central agent. Agent HA support includes
      workload-balancing/distribution and failover. <p> Tooz is the coordination engine that is used
        to coordinate workload among mulltiple active agent instances and maintain the knowledge of
        active instance to handle failover and group membership using hearbeats(pings).</p>
      <p>Zookeeper is the coordination backend used but the internals of that is encapsulated using
        Tooz which exposes APIs to manage group membership and retrieve workload specific to each
        agent.</p> The following section in conf is used to configure HA:
      <codeblock>[coordination]
      
backend_url = &lt;IP address of Zookeeper host: port> (port is usually 2181 as a zookeeper default)
        
heartbeat = 1.0
        
check_watchers = 10.0</codeblock>
      For the notification agent to be configured in HA mode, additional configuration is needed:
      <codeblock>[notification]
        
workload_partitioning = true  </codeblock> The notification
      agent HA distributes workload among multiple queues that are created based on the number of
      unique source:sink combinations in the notification agent pipeline configuration file. If
      there are additional services to be metered using notifications, then the recommendation is to
      use a separate source for those events, especially if the expected load of data from that
      source is considered high. This should lead to better workload balancing among multiple active
      notification agents. <p>Ceilometer-expirer is also Active-Active HA, but it is critical that
        you ensure that a single expirer process runs when multiple processes are scheduled to run
        at the same time (using cron-based scheduling) on multiple controller nodes. Tooz is used to
        pick an expirer process that acquires a lock when there are mutiple contenders and the
        winning process runs. There is no failover support, as expirer is not a daemon anyway and is
        scheduled to run at pre-determined intervals. The following configuration is needed to
        enable expirer HA:</p><codeblock>[database] expirer_ha = true 
expirer_ha_backend_url = &lt;IP address of coordination backend url></codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
