<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1107">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Baremetal Region Best
    Practices</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>For security, when working with the baremetal region of the Sacramento deployment, keep in
      mind the following best practices.</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ol_mnl_cts_25">
        <li>Providing bare metal resources to an un-trusted third party is not advised as a
          malicious user can potentially modify hardware firmware. <!--IRONIC-289--></li>
        <li>Generic cleaning steps presently require the IPA (Agent) based driver AND only wipe the
          contents from attached disk storage. Advanced cleaning steps such as resetting hardware
          RAID controllers, or asserting updated firmware requires a customized IPA deployment image
          with an integrated hardware manager appropriate for the hardware
          in-use.<!--IRONIC-289--></li>
        <li>Ironic supports use of configuration drives. A user deploying nodes with Ironic directly
          must do so by creating a whole configuration drive file. In the case of Nova, individual
          files can be included in the configuration drive upon instance creation. Sensitive
          information such as Passwords, Keys, or any other form of credential information SHOULD
          NOT be included in configuration drives. <!--IRONIC-285--></li>
        <li>Configuration Drives should only be trusted upon the initial boot of an instance.
          Cloud-init utilizes a lock file for this purpose. Custom instance images SHOULD NOT rely
          upon the integrity of a Configuration Drive beyond the initial boot of a host as an
          administrative user with-in a deployed instance can potentially modify a configuration
          drive once written to disk and released for use. <!--IRONIC-286--></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
