<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_h3s_n4t_mt">
  <title>Adding Moonshot Nodes</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <note type="important">Moonshots are supported as compute nodes.</note>
    </p>
    <p>HP Moonshot Servers are designed and tailored for specific workloads to deliver optimum
      performance. These support a wide range of complex IT demands right from cloud based
      applications to Social Media, Big Data and Mobility. HP Moonshot Server is the world’s first
      software defined web server that will accelerate innovation while delivering breakthrough
      efficiency and scale.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Supported Moonshot Servers</title>
    </section>
    <p>The HP Moonshot Servers are now verified hardware to run HP Helion OpenStack. The supported
      Moonshot Servers are :<ul id="ul_m44_rpt_mt">
        <li>HP ProLiant m710 Server Cartridge</li>
        <li>HP ProLiant m300 Server Cartridge</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section><sectiondiv><b>Cartridge Identifier</b></sectiondiv><p>To manage HP Moonshot servers you
        must know the node address (these are also known as the <b>transit_address</b> and the
          <b>target_address</b> respectively) and the cartridge address .<ul id="ul_sk2_vpt_mt">
          <li><b>Node Address</b>
            <b>(or "-t", "target_address"):</b> Moonshot cartridges may have one or more nodes in a
            single cartridge. The first node in the cartridge has <systemoutput>0x72</systemoutput>
            as its node address.<p><b>transit_address</b> and <b>target_address</b> are the values
              that would be specified to the <systemoutput>-T</systemoutput> and
                <systemoutput>-t</systemoutput> flags of ipmitool, respectively, when using dual
              bridging mode.</p><p>If the Moonshot cartridge has only one node, the node address
              will always be <systemoutput>0x72</systemoutput>.</p><p>If it were to have 4 nodes,
              for example, the second, third and fourth nodes will have
                <systemoutput>0x74</systemoutput>, <systemoutput>0x76</systemoutput> and
                <systemoutput>0x78</systemoutput> as their addresses, respectively.</p></li>
        </ul></p><sectiondiv><b>Cartridge Address (or "-T",
        "transit_address")</b></sectiondiv><p>Below is a sample mapping between the cartridge-no and
        cartridge address. The address increases by 2 as the cartridge number increases:<ul
          id="ul_j54_hrt_mt">
          <li>C1N1 = 0x82</li>
          <li>C2N1 = 0x84</li>
          <li>C3N1 = 0x86</li>
          <li>-----</li>
          <li>C10N1 = 0x94</li>
          <li>C11N1 = 0x96</li>
          <li>-----</li>
          <li>C28N1 = 0xB8</li>
          <li>-----</li>
        </ul></p>This command returns the cartridge
      address:<codeblock>ipmitool -I lanplus -H xx.xx.xx.xx -U Administrator -P xxxxx sdr list mcloc</codeblock></section>
    <section>
      <title>Configure Moonshot Nodes</title>
      <p>To configure Moonshot Nodes, you must add the Moonshot node's configuration details in the
        following YAML files:<ul id="ul_vyc_fm1_nt">
          <li><codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>servers.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph></li>
        </ul>For each Moonshot Nodes you must provide the iLO information which is shared across
        Moonshot and a Moonshot identifier as an additional field.</p>
    </section>
    <section><sectiondiv><b>YAML Files</b></sectiondiv><p>Ensure that you modify the following YAML
        files before provisioning Moonshot nodes:<ul id="ul_qbb_ln1_nt">
          <li><!--<codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph><p>The <codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph> provides a detail about each of the servers in your environment. You must add the iLO information and Moonshot identifier to this file. A sample file of <codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph> is shown below:<codeblock>baremetal_servers:
    - 
      node_name: Compute005
      role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT
      pxe_mac_addr: f0:92:1c:b4:59:30
      pxe_interface: eth0
      pxe_ip_addr: 192.168.60.20
      <b>moonshot: c39n1</b>
      <b>kopt_extras: vga=788 console=ttyS0,9600 earlyprint=serial,ttyS0,9600</b>
      ilo_ip: 10.1.196.27
      ilo_user: Administrator
      ilo_password: password</codeblock></p>In the sample file, <b>moonshot: c39n1</b> is an identifier for Moonshot node.--></li>
          <li><codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph><p>A control plane uses a server with a particular
              server-role. A sample file of <codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph> is shown
              below:<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

resource-nodes:
    - name: <b>moonshot</b>
    resource-prefix: moon
    server-role: <b>ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b>
    service-components:
       - ntp-client
       - nova-kvm
       - nova-compute
       - neutron-l3-agent
       - neutron-metadata-agent
       - neutron-openvswitch-agent
       - neutron-lbaasv2-agent</codeblock></p><p>In
              the sample file, <b>server-role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b> identifies the role of the
              Moonshot node.</p></li>
        </ul></p></section>
    <section>
      <ul id="ul_n51_lp1_nt">
        <li><codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph><note> The minimum size of the root device used in
            input model is 32GB. You can increase the % value so that the size is greater than 32GB.
            This is a generic requirement but is specifically relevant to moonshots since the disk
            is relatively small. </note><p>A disk model defines how local storage is to be
            configured and presented to services. Disk models are identified by a name, which can be
            specified by the user.
            <!--Since, Moonshot has only one disk, you must specify one or more disk before provisioning the Moonshot nodes-->.
            A sample file of <codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  disk-models:
  - name: <b>DISK_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</b>
    # Disk model to be used for moonshot compute nodes
    # /dev/sda_root is used as a volume group for /, /var/log and /var/crash
    # sda_root is a templated value to align with whatever partition is really used
    # This value is checked in os config and replaced by the partition actually used
    # on sda e.g. sda1 or sda5
    # /dev/sdb is used as a volume group for /var/lib (for VM storage)
    # Additional discs can be added to either volume group
    volume-groups:
    # The policy is not to consume 100% of the space of each volume group.
    # 5% should be left free for snapshots and to allow for some flexibility.
      - name: hlm-vg
        physical-volumes:
         - /dev/sda_root
        logical-volumes:
          - name: root
            size: 35%
            fstype: ext4
            mount: /
          - name: log
            size: 10%
            mount: /var/log
            fstype: ext4
            mkfs-opts: -O large_file
          - name: crash
            size: 5%
            mount: /var/crash
            fstype: ext4
            mkfs-opts: -O large_file
          - name: compute
            size: 45%
            mount: /var/lib/nova
            fstype: ext4
            mkfs-opts: -O large_file</codeblock></p><p>In
            the sample file, the name of the disk model is
          <b>DISK_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</b>.</p></li>
        <li><codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph><p>Interface model describes how its network
            interfaces are to be configured and used. <!--You need not modify this YAML file.--> A
            sample file of <codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  interface-models:
      # These examples uses eth3 and eth4 as a bonded
      # pair for all networks on all three server roles
      #
      # Edit the device names and bond options
      # to match your environment
      #
    
    - name: <b>INTERFACE_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</b>
      network-interfaces:
        - name: eth1
          device:
              name: eth1
          network-groups:
            - EXTERNAL_VM
            - GUEST
            - MGMT</codeblock></p><p>In
            the sample file, the name of the interface model is
                <b><b>INTERFACE_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</b></b>.</p></li>
        <li><codeph>servers.yml</codeph><p>Servers list the available servers used for deploying the
            cloud. A sample file of <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  servers:
    # NOTE: Addresses of servers need to be
    #       changed to match your environment.
    #
    #       Add additional servers as required
    #
    #       nic-mapping is optional.  The value specified is the name
    #       of an entry in the nic-mappings list from nic_mappings.yml.
    #       To use, uncomment and modify to match your environment.

    
    # Compute Nodes
    - id: compute6
      ip-addr: 192.168.60.21
      role: <b>ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b>
    # nic-mapping: MY_2PORT_SERVER</codeblock></p><p>In
            the sample file, <b>role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b> identifies the role of the Moonshot
            node.</p><p>Moonshot server comes with only 2 NICs. One is used for PXE and another is
            used as truck 9. <note>NIC binding is not supported due to limited number of
              NICs.</note></p></li>
        <li><codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph><p>You specify the usage of the server or where you
            want to use a particular server. A sample file of <codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph> is
            shown
            below:<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  server-roles:
    
    - name: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT
      interface-model: INTERFACE_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT
      disk-model: DISK_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</codeblock></p><p>Once
            you have modified the YAML files as per the moonshot node requirement, you can proceed
            with the installation. Refer to<b> </b><xref
              href="install_entryscale_kvm_vsa.dita#install_kvm">installation guide</xref> for more
            details.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
