<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="config_3par">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Configuring for 3PAR Block Storage
    Backend</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes how to configure your 3PAR backend for the Helion Entry Scale Cloud with
      KVM model.</p>
    <section>
      <title id="preq">Pre-requisites</title>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>Your HP Helion Entry Scale Cloud should be up and running. Installation steps can be
            found <xref href="install_entryscale_kvm.dita">here</xref>.</li>
          <li>3PAR Storage Array should be available in cloud management network or routed to cloud
            management network and 3PAR FC and iSCSI ports configured.</li>
          <li>3PAR management IP and iSCSI port IP's must have connectivity from controller and
            compute nodes.</li>
          <li>Please refer the system requirements for 3PAR in Openstack configuration guide.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="configure-3par-fc">
      <title>Configure 3PAR FC as Cinder backend</title>
      <p>You must modify <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to configure FC details.</p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to configure 3PAR FC as Cinder backend:<ol id="ol_dj2_qcz_ht">
          <li>Login to deployer node.</li>
          <li>Edit <codeph>my_cloud/config/cinder/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to add 3PAR FC
            backend:</li>
          <li>Modify enabled_backends section in <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> as shown in the
            following example:<codeblock>enabled_backends=3par_FC</codeblock><note>Append this
              change with the exiting backend, if you have already added VSA as backend.</note></li>
          <li>Copy 3PAR FC section, uncomment it, and modify the values in the
              <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file as shown in the following
              example:<codeblock id="3par-fc">[3par_FC]
hp3par_api_url=https://10.1.192.10:8080/api/v1
hp3par_username=helionadmin
hp3par_password=helion
hp3par_cpg=FC_r5,FC_r1
san_ip=10.1.192.10
san_login=helionadmin
san_password=helion
volume_driver=cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_3par_fc.HP3PARFCDriver
volume_backend_name=3par_FC</codeblock><note>
              Please enter the values which are specific to your environment. </note></li>
          <li>Commit your configuration to a <xref href="../../using_git.dita">local
              repository</xref>:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "&lt;commit message>"</codeblock><note>
              Enter your commit message &lt;commit message></note></li>
          <li>Run the configuration
              processor:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock><p>When
              you run the Configuration Processor you will be prompted for two passwords. Enter the
              first password to make the Configuration Processor encrypt its sensitive data, which
              is comprised of the random inter-service passwords that it generates and the Ansible
              group_vars and host_vars that it produces for subsequent deploy runs. You will need
              this key for subsequent Ansible deploy runs and subsequent Configuration Processor
              runs. If you wish to change an encryption password that you have already used when
              running the Configuration Processor then enter the new password at the second prompt,
              otherwise just press carriage return.</p><p>For CI purposes you can specify the
              required passwords on the ansible command line. For example, the command below will
              disable encryption by the configuration processor
              <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml -e encrypt="" -e rekey=""</codeblock>
              If you receive an error during either of these steps then there is an issue with one
              or more of your configuration files. We recommend that you verify that all of the
              information in each of your configuration files is correct for your environment and
              then commit those changes to git using the instructions above.</p><p>Before re-running
              the Configuration Processor after fixing an error you need to run the clean script
              detailed in the <xref
                href="installation_troubleshooting.dita#troubleshooting_installation/configproc"
                >Installation Troubleshooting</xref> document.</p></li>
          <li>Run the following command to create a deployment
            directory.<codeblock><codeph>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeph></codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the following command to configure 3PAR FC as a Cinder
            backend.<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Configure 3PAR iSCSI as Cinder backend</title>
      <p>You must modify <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to configure iSCSI details.</p>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Login to deployer node.</li>
          <li>Change the directory as shown below:<codeblock>cd ~/helion</codeblock></li>
          <li>Edit <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file at
              <codeph>my_cloud/config/cinder/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to add 3PAR iSCSI backend:</li>
          <li>Modify enabled_backends section in <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> as shown in the
            following example:<codeblock>enabled_backends=3par_iSCSI</codeblock><note>Append this
              change with the exiting backend, if you have already added VSA as backend.</note></li>
          <li>Copy 3PAR iSCSI section, uncomment it, and modify the values in the
              <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file as shown in the following
              example:<codeblock id="3par-iscsi">[3par_iSCSI]
hp3par_api_url=https://10.1.192.10:8080/api/v1
hp3par_username=helionadmin
hp3par_password=helion
hp3par_cpg=FC_r1 (valid cpg name. User need to get from system admin)
san_ip=10.1.192.10
san_login=helionadmin
san_password=helion
volume_driver=cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_3par_iscsi.HP3PARISCSIDriver
volume_backend_name=3par_iSCSI
hp3par_iscsi_ips=172.32.0.9 (user can provide multiple IP separated by comma)
hp3par_iscsi_chap_enabled=true</codeblock><note>
              Please enter the values of all the paramters specific to your environment.
            </note></li>
          <li>Execute the steps (<b>5 -9</b>) mentioned in <xref
              href="#topic_vln_2xy_ht/configure-3par-fc" format="dita">Configure 3PAR FC as Cinder
              backend </xref> as mentioned above.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <p>To verify the 3PAR FC and iSCSI backends are configured successfully, please refer to <xref
        href="blockstorage/verify_backend_configuration.dita">Verify Backend
      Configuration</xref>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
