<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="install_gui">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Installing via the GUI </title>
  <body>
    <!--Needs Edit-->
    <section> HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 comes with a UI, the Dayzero Installer, for installing your
      cloud. Rather than searching through and editing a number of YAML files to input your specific
      configuration data, finding the correct location, and maintaining the format of the files, the
      UI presents fields in which you may enter your information. </section>
    <section>In addition, rather than having to run a series of commands to execute the cobbler and
      Ansible scripts that initiate the installation of HP Helion OpenStack, the UI application runs
      them behind the scenes. </section>
    <section>While the UI app does more than simply populate the configuration files that the
      configuration processor uses as input to its processes, it does populate them. Therefore you
      can inspect the files whenever you like, or before reconfiguring your cloud. </section>
    <section>Note, however, that if you decide to look at or try to modify configuration files
      during the process, none of your values are actually written to the configuration files until
      you click the Deploy button at the end of the process. That would mean too that if you were to
      try to change anything in the files themselves mid process, the values would get overwritten
      by values you have entered in the GUI before clicking the Deploy button.</section>


    <section>These YAML configuration files are now stored in a local git repository as well, as
      explained in <xref href="installation/using_git.dita">Using git for Configuration
        Management</xref>. <p>When installing via the GUI, you are starting with a model (example
        cloud configuration) and can and must edit the underlying example to reflect your
        environment.</p> However, the full range of customizations is not possible via the GUI as
      some configuration items are not exposed. Below is the list of what can and cannot be changed: </section>
    <section><b>Changes to the following items may be made:</b><ul id="ul_hsd_bym_tt">
        <li>servers (including Linux for HP Helion installation configuration) </li>
        <li>networks </li>
        <li>disk models </li>
        <li>interface models </li>
        <li>NIC mappings </li>
        <li>NTP servers (cloudConfig.yml) </li>
        <li>tags in network groups</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Changes to the following items cannot be made: </b><ul id="ul_b5d_bym_tt">
        <li>server groups</li>
        <li>server roles</li>
        <li>network groups</li>
        <li>firewall rules</li>
        <li>cloudConfig.yml (i.e. DNS, SMTP, firewall settings)</li>
        <li>control planes</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section><title>Before you begin</title> Before you run the GUI installer to install your cloud,
      there are a number of things you need to do to prepare. <ol>
        <li>Prepare your servers</li>
        <li>Gather your information <ul>
            <li>Server names </li>
            <li>IP addresses </li>
            <li>Server Roles </li>
            <li>PXE MAC addresses </li>
            <li>PXE IP addresses </li>
            <li>PXE interfaces </li>
            <li>IPMI/iLO IP address, username, password </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Choose your <xref href="example_configurations.dita">cloud model/example</xref>
          template. No action other than an understanding of your needs is necessary at this point.
          You will indicate which model you wish to deploy in a GUI screen. Note, however,  that the
          only VSA options for the <i>Entry-scale KVM with VSA</i> model is to have 0 or 3 VSA
          nodes. Note also that you cannot run the deployer/lifecycle manager on a dedicated node
          using the GUI installer; it can only run in the control plane using the models exposed in
          the GUI.</li>
        <li>Before you use the GUI to install your cloud, you may install the operating system,
          Linux for HP Helion, on your nodes (servers) if you prefer. Otherwise, the installer will
          install it for you. <p>If you are installing the operating system on all your nodes
            yourself, note that you must do so using the Linux for HP Helion image that is included
            in the HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 package. You may find the instructions on the following
            pages helpful even when using your own tools to install the operating systems:</p>
          <ul>
            <li><xref
                href="installation/install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm"
                >Operating system install help for KVM-based clouds</xref></li>
            <li><xref
                href="installation/install_entryscale_esx.dita#install_esx"
                >Operating system install help for ESX-based clouds</xref></li>
          </ul>
          <note>When following the guidance for operating system installation on those pages, stop
            before the sections for <b>Running the Configuration Processor</b>. The GUI installer
            will run those steps, and in the case where you have the GUI also install the operating
            systems, it will run all the previous steps (playbooks) as well.</note></li>
        
      </ol>
      
    </section>
      <section id="gui_use"><title>Get ready to run the GUI installer</title> Two final steps you
      must take before running the GUI installer, whether you are allowing it to install the
      operating systems on your nodes, or you are performing that task yourself using your own
      tools: <ol>
        <li> For ESX installations, at this point you must modify the<b>
            ~/helion/hos/ansible/hlm-deploy.yml</b> to uncomment the line containing eon-deploy.yml.
          You must then comment out the line containing ceph-deploy.yml, vsa-deploy.yml, and
          cmc-deploy.yml. Then if you need to, follow the instructions in <xref
            href="installation/install_entryscale_esx.dita#install_esx/optional-eon">Step 4
            here</xref>. They are optional steps to enable centralized logging for the EON
          service.</li>
        <li> Change the file permissions of hlm-ux-implementation/server/ansible/hosts/localhost to
          not executable. Execute the following command to do so:
          <codeblock>chmod -x ~/hlm-ux-implementation/server/ansible/hosts/localhost </codeblock>This
          will set the correct permission on the localhost file so that the <b>ready-install-os.yml
          </b>playbook can run and install the operating system on the nodes. </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Run the GUI to install your cloud</title>
      <p>Now that the OS, HP Linux for HP Helion OpenStack, is installed on all your servers
        (nodes), or the GUI will perform all deployment tasks for you, you are ready to launch
        it.</p>
      <p>The GUI is found on the lifecycle manager node at: <b>http://&lt;lifecycle
          manager_IP>:79/dayzero</b></p>
      <p>To create a secure tunnel/port forwarding into Apache from the lifecycle manager to be able
        to use the GUI in a browser, SSH tunnel into the lifecycle manager with the
        username/password set up when installing the lifecycle manager. Username and password should
        be what was set in "Set up the Deployer" in the installation instructions. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>ssh -v -N -L 8080:&lt;lifecycle manager_IP>:79 &lt;Username>@&lt;lifecycle manager_IP></codeblock>
      <p>Then on your local machine, point your web browser to:
        <b>http://localhost:8080/dayzero</b></p> As you proceed through the GUI, you need only
      supply your server names and IP addresses. </section>
    <section>In the Assign network groups: External VM network fields, <b>do not</b> add entries for
      CIDR, Gateway, or IP Range, only VLAN ID. Neutron will assign these.<p>When the installation
        is complete, the Ansible log will be displayed on the final page.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Use the installer securely</title>
      <p> The GUI installer is a web-based application that runs on the deployer/lifecycle manager
        node and is implemented in node.js. Currently this application runs behind Apache 2.0 where
        requests are proxied to the node.js Express Web Server. The node.js Express Server runs on
        port 3000 and Apache runs on port 79. </p>
      <p>You should access the installer through Apache and not directly from the Express server. An
        Example URL looks like this: http://&lt;lifecycle manager-host-ip>:79/dayzero When you
        finish installing, the Installer will be disabled via Ansible. It is also disabled once
        deployment is completed following the CLI instructions..</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>The GUI is used only once: during the initial installation of your cloud.</p><p>For VSA
        deployments, once the GUI competes its installation, you must follow the steps outlined in
        the <xref href="installation/configure_vsa.dita">VSA Configuration</xref>page.</p>After
      deployment, you may also continue to <xref href="installation/installation_verification.dita"
        >Verifying Your Installation</xref> and <xref href="installation/postinstall_checklist.dita"
        >Post-Installation Checklist</xref>.<p>To understand a cloud configuration more thoroughly
        and to learn how to make any changes later, visit these documentation pages: <ul
          id="ul_akt_fv2_lt">
          <li><xref href="input_model.dita">HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 Input Model</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="installation/using_git.dita">Using Git for Configuration
            Management</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <note>Because the GUI installer is disabled after deployment is complete, whether you
        installed your cloud via the GUI or via the command line, if you want to re-enable the GUI
        later but are not re-installing from scratch, run these commands:
        <codeblock>sudo a2ensite dayzero-apache.conf
sudo systemctl start dayzero.service</codeblock>
      </note>
    </section>
<section><title>Final Steps</title>

<ul><li>The public Horizon Dashboard connection is over TLS, thus please use HTTPS:// to navigate to
          Horizon with the IP address the installer presents once install is complete.</li>
<li><xref href="installation/configure_ceph.dita#config_ceph">Visit the Ceph configuration page for
            Ceph post-install steps</xref>.</li>

</ul>

</section>
  </body>
</topic>
