<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="install_swift">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Installation for Helion Entry Scale Cloud
    with Swift Only</title>
  <body>
    <section id="about">
      <p>This page describes the installation step requirements for the HPE Helion Entry Scale Cloud
        with Swift Only model.</p>
    </section>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/important_notes"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/prereqs"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/setup_deployer"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/configure_deployer"/>
    <section id="configuration">
      <title>Configure Your Environment</title>
      <p>This part of the install is going to depend on the specific cloud configuration you are
        going to use.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Setup your configuration files, as follows: <ol>
            <li>See the sample sets of configuration files in the
                <codeph>~/helion/examples/</codeph> directory. Each set will have an accompanying
              README.md file that explains the contents of each of the configuration files.</li>
            <li>Copy the example configuration files into the required setup directory and edit them
              to contain the details of your environment:
              <codeblock>cp -r ~/helion/examples/entry-scale-swift/* ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/</codeblock></li>
            <li>Begin inputting your environment information into the configuration files in the
                <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition</codeph> directory. <p>Full details of how to
                do this can be found here: <xref href="input_model.dita">Helion OpenStack 2.0 Input
                  Model</xref>.</p>
              <p>In many cases, the example models provide most of the data you need to create a
                valid input model. However, there are two important aspects you must plan and
                configure before starting a deploy as follows:</p>
              <ul>
                <li>Check the disk model used by your nodes. Specifically, check that all disk
                  drives are correctly named and used as described in <xref
                    href="objectstorage/allocating_disk_drives.dita#allocating-disk-drives/swift-requirement-disk-device"
                    >Allocating Swift Disk Devices</xref>.</li>
                <li>Select an appropriate partition power for your rings. Detailed information about
                  this is provided at <xref href="objectstorage/ring_specifications.dita">Swift Ring
                    Specifications</xref>.</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ol>
          <!--
          <p>If you chose to use your first controller node as your deployer, ensure that your
              <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file contains the <codeph>is-deployer: true</codeph>
            notation in your controller options. If you are using a dedicated deployer node you can
            omit this. Here is an example snippet of a <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file where a
            user is using their first controller node as their deployer:
            <codeblock># Controllers
  - id: controller1
    ip-addr: 192.168.10.3
    role: CONTROLLER-ROLE
    server-group: RACK1
    nic-mapping: HP-DL360-4PORT
    mac-addr: b2:72:8d:ac:7c:6f
    ilo-ip: 192.168.9.3
    ilo-password: password
    ilo-user: admin
    <b>is-deployer: true</b></codeblock></p> -->
          <p>Optionally, you can use the <codeph>hosencrypt.py</codeph> script to encrypt your iLo
            passwords. This script uses OpenSSL.</p>
          <ol>
            <li>Change to the Ansible directory: <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible</codeblock></li>
            <li>Put the encrytion key into the following environment variable:
              <codeblock>export HOS_USER_PASSWORD_ENCRYPT_KEY=&#60;encryption key></codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the python script below and follow the instructions. Enter a password that you
              want to encrypt. <codeblock>hosencrypt.py</codeblock></li>
            <li>Take the string generated and place it in the <codeph>"ilo_password"</codeph> field
              in your <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/servers.yml</codeph> file,
              remembering to enclose it in quotes.</li>
            <li>Repeat the above for each server.</li>
          </ol>
          <note>Before you run any playbooks, remember that you need to export the encryption key in
            the following environment variable: <codeph>export
              HOS_USER_PASSWORD_ENCRYPT_KEY=&#60;encryption key></codeph></note></li>
      </ol>
      <p>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="using_git.dita">local git repo</xref>, as
        follows: <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</codeblock>
        <note type="important">This step needs to be repeated any time you make changes to your
          configuration files before you move onto the following steps. See <xref
            href="using_git.dita">Using Git for Configuration Management</xref> for more
          information.</note></p>
    </section>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/config_processor"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/deploy_cobbler"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/provision_nodes"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/deploy"/>
    <section conref="install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/post-installation"/>
  </body>
</topic>
