<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="install_overview">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Installation Overview</title>
  <body>
    <section id="about"><title>Helion OpenStack 2.0 Installation</title> Beginning with HP Helion
      OpenStack 2.0 Beta 2, you have two options for installing your cloud. You can use a GUI that
      runs in your web browser or you can install via a CLI that exposes the full power and
      flexibility of HP Helion OpenStack 2.0.</section>
    <section> You should use the GUI if: <ul id="ul_p1l_2lw_kt">
        <li>You are installing a simple demo or proof-of-concept cloud. </li>
        <li>You have less than about 15 nodes (it will work for larger numbers but entering all that
          data in the GUI will get tiresome). </li>
        <li>You are not planning to deploy availability zones or use L3 segmentation in your initial
          deployment. </li>
        <li>You are happy with the tuned HP default OpenStack configuration.</li>
      </ul> Instructions for installing via the GUI are here. </section>
    <ul><li><xref href="gui_installer.dita#install_gui">Installing via the GUI</xref></li></ul>
    <section>Note that reconfiguration of your cloud, at the moment, is done via the CLI. The GUI
      installer if for first-time installation. </section>
    <section>You should use the CLI if: <ul id="ul_wbl_2lw_kt">
        <li>You are installing a more complex or large-scale cloud. </li>
        <li>You have more than about 15 nodes. </li>
        <li>You need to use availability zones or the server groups functionality of the cloud model
          (link this text to model docs). </li>
        <li>You want to customize the cloud configuration beyond the tuned defaults that HP provides
          out of the box. </li>
        <li>You need deeper customizations than are possible to express using the GUI.</li>
      </ul> Instructions for installing via the CLI are here</section>
    <section>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="bare_installation_kvm.dita">Baremetal Install for KVM Hypervisor</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="bare_installation_esx.dita">Baremetal Install for ESX Hypervisor</xref></li>
      </ul>
<p>Other useful documents that will help you understand, plan, configure, and install your cloud are listed below.</p>
      <ul id="ul_adl_2lw_kt">
        <li><xref href="beta1_to_beta2_upgrade.dita">Upgrading from Beta 1 to Beta 2</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="using_git.dita">Using Git for Configuration Manqagement</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="preinstall_checklist.dita">Pre-Installation Checklist</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="bare_installation_kvm.dita">Baremetal Install for KVM Hypervisor</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="bare_installation_esx.dita">Baremetal Install for ESX Hypervisor</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="installation_troubleshooting.dita">Troubleshooting Your
          Installation</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="installation_verification.dita">Verifying Your Installation</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="postinstall_checklist.dita">Post-Installation Checklist</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
