<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="tech_overview">
  
  <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> : Overview</title>
  
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>
        <keyword keyref="kw-cp"/>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>    
  </prolog>
  
  <body>
    <!--Needs Edit-->
    <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> is the latest OpenStack-based infrastructure-as-a-service cloud
      platform release from HP. It is based on the <term keyref="gloss-openstack"/> Kilo release and implements core
      services and features of Kilo while providing new installation and management features.</p>

    <section><title>Installation, Configuration, and Management</title>
      <p>With the release of <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> comes an easy installation and configuration
        workflow. Installation of the basic cloud requires that you run a handful of commands, or
        use the new installation GUI to step through installation in a wizard-like fashion.</p>
      <p>OpenStack services are installed during the installation process, so there is no need to
        install and configure them individually. Instead, in <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/>, configuration,
        including which services to install, how many nodes you will have, what their individual
        roles will be, what storage will be used, which networks will handle which traffic, and
        installation and configuration of the underlying operating system on each node is declared
        in configuration objects stored in YAML files. </p>
      <p>These files allow customization, and <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> ships with complete sets
        describing a few common configurations. You may base your deployment on one of these
        templates and customize from there if you wish.</p>
      <p>This installation and configuration is made possible by a new feature in <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/>, the <keyword keyref="kw-cp"/>, a set of Python scripts that consume the data
        stored in the configuration YAML files and output <term keyref="gloss-ansible"/> variables used to configure
        networks, services, servers, and the other applications upon which the cloud runs.</p>
      <p>As you will read in the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> <xref
        href="input_model.dita#input_model/toc">Input Model</xref> topic, the <keyword keyref="kw-cp"/> 
        reads and validates the input model described in the YAML files discussed above,
        combines it with the service definitions provided by <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> and any persisted
        state information about the current deployment to produce a set of Ansible variables that
        can be used to deploy the cloud. It also produces a set of information files that provide
        details about the configuration. Reading this document you will gain a thorough
        understanding of how <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> allows you to deploy and manage your cloud via
        this comprehensive "wrapper" around cloud configuration.</p>
      <p>The example configurations that ship with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> are described in <xref
          href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/contents"><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/>: Example Configurations</xref></p>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_ykn_41q_5t">
          <li><xref href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_kvm_vsa"
              >Entry-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_esx"
              >Entry-scale ESX model</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_swift"
              >Entry-scale Swift model</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_ceph"
              >Entry-scale KVM with Ceph model</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/midscale_kvm_vsa"
              >Mid-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Post-deployment Reconfiguration and Management</title>
      <p>In addition to initial installation and deployment, the addition of the Configuration
        Processor means that you can reconfigure your cloud easily after deployment. Note that due
        to its combination of deployment and lifecycle-management features, we may use the terms
        deployer and lifecycle-manager interchangeably throughout the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/> documentation
        to refer to the features described in this document.</p>
      <p>By executing pre-written, supplied Ansible playbooks in the form of a single command, you
        may perform management tasks such as those below, along with many others. <ul>
          <li>start, stop, and get the status of OpenStack services</li>
          <li>add and remove controller, compute, and storage nodes </li>
          <li>back up or restore control plane nodes </li>
          <li>migrate Cinder volumes</li>
          <li>get Ceph status</li>
          <li>start and stop logging</li>
          <li>erase nodes to baremetal</li>
          <li>re-image nodes</li>
          <li>reconfigure Swift to add or replace drives</li>
          <li>validate Swift drives against the storage model declared</li>
        </ul>
      </p> While the internal management of OpenStack services and the configuration of their
      functionality still occurs via the service APIs and follows the methodology outlined by
      OpenStack, the high-level management of the services themselves and their interaction with the
      cloud is accomplished via the Ansible playbooks mentioned here. </section>
    <section><title>Configuration Versioning</title> In <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version"/>, the YAML files
      that define your cloud configuration are stored in a local git repository that is installed
      along with the cloud. The cloud deployment Ansible playbooks look in the appropriate git
      directories and execute changes when run. This allows you to keep an historical record of
      configuration changes as well as help you identify issues that arise later.</section>

   <!-- <section><title>What's New in Documentation</title>
    </section>-->
  </body>
</topic>
