<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_h3s_n4t_mt">
  <title>Provision Moonshot Nodes</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <note type="important">Moonshots are supported as compute nodes.</note>
    </p>
    <p>HP Moonshot Servers are designed and tailored for specific workloads to deliver optimum
      performance. These support a wide range of complex IT demands right from cloud based
      applications to Social Media, Big Data and Mobility. HP Moonshot is the world’s first software
      defined web server that will accelerate innovation while delivering breakthrough efficiency
      and scale.</p>
    <p>The HP Moonshot Servers are now verified hardware to run HP Helion OpenStack. The supported
      Moonshot Servers are :<ul id="ul_m44_rpt_mt">
        <li>HP ProLiant m710 Server Cartridge</li>
        <li>HP ProLiant m300 Server Cartridge</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>To manage HP Moonshot servers you must know the cartridge address and the node address (these
      are also known as the <b>transit_address</b> and the <b>target_address</b> respectively).<ul
        id="ul_sk2_vpt_mt">
        <li><b>transit_address</b> and <b>target_address</b> are the values that would be specified
          to the <systemoutput>-T</systemoutput> and <systemoutput>-t</systemoutput> flags of
          ipmitool, respectively, when using dual bridging mode.</li>
        <li><b>Node Address</b>
          <b>(or "-t", "target_address"):</b> Moonshot cartridges may have one or more nodes in a
          single cartridge. The first node in the cartridge has <systemoutput>0x72</systemoutput> as
          its node address.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>If the Moonshot cartridge has only one node, the node address will always be
        <systemoutput>0x72</systemoutput>.</p>
    <p>If it were to have 4 nodes, for example, the second, third and fourth nodes will have
        <systemoutput>0x74</systemoutput>, <systemoutput>0x76</systemoutput> and
        <systemoutput>0x78</systemoutput> as their addresses, respectively.<ul id="ul_bcn_dqt_mt">
        <li><b>Cartridge Address (or "-T", "transit_address")</b><p>Below is a sample mapping
            between the cartridge-no and cartridge address. The address increases by 2 as the
            cartridge number increases:<ul id="ul_j54_hrt_mt">
              <li>C1N1 = 0x82</li>
              <li>C2N1 = 0x84</li>
              <li>C3N1 = 0x86</li>
              <li>-----</li>
              <li>C10N1 = 0x94</li>
              <li>C11N1 = 0x96</li>
              <li>-----</li>
              <li>C28N1 = 0xB8</li>
              <li>-----</li>
            </ul></p></li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>This command returns the cartridge
      address:<codeblock>ipmitool -I lanplus -H xx.xx.xx.xx -U Administrator -P xxxxx sdr list mcloc</codeblock></p>
    <section>
      <title>Configure Moonshot Nodes</title>
      <p>To configure Moonshot Nodes, you must add an additional qualifier in the following YAML
          files:<ul id="ul_vyc_fm1_nt">
          <li><codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>servers.yml</codeph></li>
          <li><codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph></li>
        </ul> For each Moonshot Nodes you must provide the iLO information which is shared across
        Moonshot and a Moonshot identifier as an additional field.</p>
      <note> The minimum size of the root device used in input model is 32GB. You can increase the %
        value so that the size is greater than 32GB. This is a generic requirement but is
        specifically relevant to moonshots since the disk is relatively small. </note>
    </section>
    <section><sectiondiv><b>YAML Files</b></sectiondiv><p>Ensure that you modify the following YAML
        file before provisioning Moonshot nodes:<ul id="ul_qbb_ln1_nt">
          <li><codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph><p>The <codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph>
              provides a detail about each of the servers in your environment. You must add the iLO
              information and Moonshot identifier to this file. A sample file of
                <codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph> is shown
              below:<codeblock>baremetal_servers:
    - 
      node_name: Compute005
      role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT
      pxe_mac_addr: f0:92:1c:b4:59:30
      pxe_interface: eth0
      pxe_ip_addr: 192.168.60.20
      <b>moonshot: c39n1</b>
      <b>kopt_extras: vga=788 console=ttyS0,9600 earlyprint=serial,ttyS0,9600</b>
      ilo_ip: 10.1.196.27
      ilo_user: Administrator
      ilo_password: password</codeblock></p>In
            the sample file, <b>moonshot: c39n1</b> is an identifier for Moonshot node.</li>
          <li><codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph><p>A control plane uses a server with a particular
              server-role. A sample file of <codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph> is shown
              below:<codeblock>resource-nodes:
        - <b>name: moonshot</b>
          resource-prefix: moon
          <b>server-role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b>
          service-components:
            - ntp-client
            - nova-kvm
            - nova-compute
            - neutron-l3-agent
            - neutron-metadata-agent
            - neutron-openvswitch-agent
            - neutron-lbaasv2-agent
</codeblock></p><p>In
              the sample file,  <b>server-role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b> identifies the role of the
              Moonshot node.</p></li>
        </ul></p></section>
    <section>
      <ul id="ul_n51_lp1_nt">
        <li><codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph><p>A disk model defines how local storage is to be
            configured and presented to services. Disk models are identified by a name, which can be
            specified by the user. Since, Moonshot has only one disk, you must specify one or more
            disk before provisioning the Moonshot nodes. A sample file of
              <codeph>disks_compute.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>disk-models:
  - name: DISK_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</codeblock></p></li>
        <li><codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph><p>Interface model describes how its network
            interfaces are to be configured and used. <!--You need not modify this YAML file.--> A
            sample file of <codeph>net_interfaces.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>interface-models:
   - name: INTERFACE_SET_COMPUTE</codeblock></p></li>
        <li><codeph>servers.yml</codeph><p>Servers list the available servers used for deploying the
            cloud. A sample file of <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> is shown
            below:<codeblock>servers:   
  - id: compute5
      ip-addr: 192.168.60.20
      <b>role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b></codeblock></p><p>In
            the sample  file, <b>role: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT</b> identifies the role of the Moonshot
            node.</p></li>
        <li><codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph><p>You specify the usage of the server or where you
            want to use a particular server. A sample file of <codeph>server_roles.yml</codeph> is
            shown
            below:<codeblock>server-roles:
   - name: ROLE-COMPUTE-MOONSHOT
     interface-model: INTERFACE_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT
     disk-model: DISK_SET_COMPUTE_MOONSHOT</codeblock></p><p>Once
            you have modified the YAML files as per the moonshot node requirement, you can proceed
            with the installation. Refer to<b> </b><xref
              href="bare_installation_kvm.dita#install_kvm">installation guide</xref> (need to
            insert the link) for more details.</p></li>
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
