<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="release_notes">
    <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-21"/>: Release Notes</title>
    <body>
        
        <section id="about">
            <p>This document provides an overview of the features contained within
                <keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-21"/>, 
                including known issues and workarounds for this release:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><xref href="releasenotes21.dita#release_notes/features">Features Available in this
                    Release</xref></li>
                <li><xref href="releasenotes21.dita#release_notes/known_issues">Known Issues in this
                    Release</xref></li>
            </ul>
        </section>   
        
        <section id="features"><title>Features Available in this Release</title>
            

            <!--  https://jira.hpcloud.net/browse/DOCS-2257  -->
            <p id="DOCS-2257"><b>IPv6 access to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/>  components is blocked</b></p>
            
            <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> will upgrade your system to include firewall rules 
                preventing IPv6 access to <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> components.</p>
            
            <p>                
                For <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/>, the release notes indicated IPv4 access to <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> components 
                was restricted to known interfaces and services by firewall rules - 
                see <xref href="releasenotes.dita#release_notes/IPv6Traffic">IPv6 Traffic Not Supported</xref>. 
                It also indicated IPv6 access was 
                not restricted in this way. The <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> release notes provided instructions to disable IPv6 on your 
                operating system and a suggestion to disable IPv6 at your router. This is no longer necessary. 
                
            </p>
            
            
            <p><b>Freezer UI</b></p>            
            <p><b>OVSvApp over VxLAN</b></p>
            <p><b>Ceph Multi-network support</b></p>
            <p><b>hLinux: security updates via Top of Tree</b></p>
            <p><b>Mid-scale support</b></p>
            <p><b>~100 patches</b></p>
            <p><b>Includes all fixes in HOS V2.0.1 hotfix</b></p>
            <p><b>Will include HLX-755 “Softlockup affecting multipath”</b></p>
            <p><b>kernel update => managed reboots</b></p>
            
        </section>
        
        <section id="known_issues">
            <title>Known Issues in this Release</title>
            
            <!--  https://jira.hpcloud.net/browse/DOCS-2052  -->
            <p id="DOCS-2052"><b>Changes to Alarm Definition in Centralized Logging 
                may require existing alarms to be deleted and recreated on an upgrade from 
                <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-21"/></b></p>   
            
            <p>
                A new dimension <codeph>service=logging</codeph> has been added for alarm definitions.
                During an upgrade, you should delete exisiting alarms that won't have this dimension and 
                then recreate them, so that they will have the correct dimension and appear as expected 
                in the Ops Console "logging" bucket. Before performing an upgrade, remove the old logging alarms manually,
                specifically the "Process Detect" alarms for Apache, Beaver, Kibana and Logstash. 
                </p>
                        
              <p>
                If you do not perform this step, two sets of alarm metrics will be generated after the upgrade. 
                As a result, the metrics for the older definition might appear in the "logging" bucket while those for the 
                newer definition might appear in the Unknown or Other bucket.
              </p>
  
  


            
        </section>
        
    </body>
</topic>
