<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_j4d_c1c_lt">
  <title>RN</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following table list a high level overview of  the  OpenStack projects/services which are
      included in HP Helion OpenStack  and their status. Only official upstream OpenStack projects
      are included, not non-OpenStack add-ons that originate elsewhere. <note>If the service is not
        listed in the table then it is not present in HP Helion OpenStack.</note></p>
    <p>
      <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_q2l_d1c_lt">
        <strow>
          <stentry>Service Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Status in HOS 2.0</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Barbican</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Ceilometer</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Cinder</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Designate</stentry>
          <stentry>In-Cloud Service (Installed Separately)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Glance</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Heat</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Horizon</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Ironic</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Keystone</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Magnum</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Manila</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Monasca</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-FWaaS</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-LBaaS v1</stentry>
          <stentry>Not recommended</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-LBaaS v2</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-Octavia</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core (TBC)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-VPNaaS</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Nova</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Swift</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Tempest</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </p>
    <p/>
    <section>
      <title>Relation of HOS OpenStack Services to OpenStack stable/kilo</title>
    </section>
    <p>The general policy for HOS 2.0 is that each service is kept up to date versus upstream
      OpenStack stable/kilo. Automated jobs run nightly to mirror upstream OpenStack stable/kilo
      down to HOS's internal code mirror so, unless the sync job fails, each service should be up to
      date. The level of drift between upstream OpenStack stable/kilo and what is included in the
      HOS V2.0 build is summarised here. This is automated output from all the OpenStack repos
      included in the HOS daily builds. Note that Ceilometer, Nova, Horizon, Keystone and Cinder
      have >2 local patches.The detailed list of all missing patches and all local patches is here.
      OpenStack Kilo Stable Patch Release ScheduleThe schedule for patch releases for OpenStack Kilo
      is at Planned stable/kilo releases (9 months). Note that 2015.1.1 released in July and
      2015.1.2 is due in mid-Sept. What 'version' of OpenStack Kilo will HOS V2.0 ship with?As per
      above, HOS V2.0 is built from code which is sync'd nightly with upstream OpenStack
      stable/kilo. HOS V2.0 will therefore ship with the latest Kilo patches as of the final build
      of HOS V2.0. In other words, the HOS V2.0 plan is that it will be more up to date than the
      2015.1.2 "Kilo patch release".</p>
    <p/>
  </body>
</topic>
