<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="beta_upgrade">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Upgrading from Beta 2</title>
  <body>

     <section><title>Before you upgrade</title> There are a number of changes you must make to the
      cloud configuration that is defined in a number of YAML files. In HP Helion OpenStack Beta 2,
      you used these files to configure your cloud, and you will ust them again, after
      modifications. <p>Modifications will depend on your particular cloud, but for all clouds you
        will need to merge servers.yml and baremetal.yml.</p>
    </section>
     
    
    <section id="combine"><title>Combining the baremetalConfig.yml and servers.yml Files</title>
      <p>As mentioned above, one of the changes to the input model from Beta 2 to the released
        version is the merging of baremetal.yml and servers.yml. In order to use your current
        configuration files, you will need to handle the merging of these two files yourself.</p>
      
      <p>This series of commands will allow you to combine the files and commit them to your
        configuration:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log into your deployer node</li>
        <li>This command will combine the two files into a single <codeph>combined.yml</codeph> file
          for you to review:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data
~/helion/hos/ansible/merge-baremetal.py baremetalConfig.yml servers.yml > combined.yml</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>Review the changes in the file to confirm they are as you intended:
          <codeblock>diff -u servers.yml combined.yml</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>If the changes are correct, execute the following commands to create your
            <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file and remove the deprecated
            <codeph>baremetalConfig.yml</codeph> file:
          <codeblock>mv combined.yml servers.yml
rm baremetalConfig.yml</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>Commit this change to your local git:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m 'convert baremetal info to new style'</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Model changes required before upgrading from Beta 2 to HP Helion OpenStack 2.0</title>
      <p>One of the changes from Beta 2 to GA is that the server installed as the deployer and the
        network used for lifecycle management must now be explicitly included in the input model so
        that they can be secured and upgraded. In cases where the deployer has been used as a server
        in the cloud and/or the network is already included (e.g. a shared deployment / management
        network) the changes are relatively minor. If you have a dedicated deployer node or a
        dedicated deployment network, then additions are more complex.</p><p>After running the
        hos-init.bash script (or vagrant provision in a virtual environment), the cloud model from
        the original Beta 2 deployment must be updated prior to running the upgrade to HP Helion
        OpenStack 2.0. The exact changes depend on the original deployed cloud model. </p> Some
      subset of the categories of changes listed below are required, depending on the Beta 2 cloud.
      In the simplest case, when you have installed the deployer in the control plane, you will only
      need to apply a small number of changes, assuming that this cloud is also using a shared
      network for HLM and cloud management traffic.</section>
    <section>To cover the upgrade of varying cloud configurations, the description of changes is
      grouped into the following categories: <ul id="ul_xc3_g3s_st">
        <li>Cloud using a dedicated deployer node. </li>
        <li>Deployer-in-cloud where one of the cloud nodes (typically a controller) is also used as
          the deployer node. </li>
        <li>Cloud using dedicated network for serving installation traffic (sometimes known as the
          PXE network). </li>
        <li>Cloud using shared network for HLM and internal cloud management traffic (typically
          named MGMT or MANAGEMENT network). </li>
        <li>Separate disk model for the deployer node. </li>
        <li>Addition of firewall rules </li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section><title>Dedicated Deployer Node</title> For Beta 2 clouds deployed using a dedicated
      deployer node, three sets of changes are required to add this dedicated node to the cloud
      model and to incorporate the new lifecycle-manager and lifecycle-manager-target service
      components: <ol>
        <li>Update the control plane model: <ol>
            <li>Add a new single-node (member-count of 1) cluster for the dedicated
              deployer/lifecycle manager node. This cluster  contains only one service component:
              lifecycle-manager-target. </li>
            <li>Remove logging-producer and monasca-agent from the list of common-service-components
              and add them to any control-plane or resource-node cluster except the newly-added
              lifecycle-manager cluster. This is required as existing Beta 2 deployments do not have
              logging-producer or monasca-agent installed on the dedicated deployer node. Without
              this change, the upgrade of the dedicated deployer node will fail on an initial check
              of the status of these services. </li>
            <li>Add lifecycle-manager-target to the list of common-service-components. </li>
            <li>Change the now deprecated name resource-nodes section to resources and remove the
              nova-kvm service component, which is redundant (nova-compute-kvm covers what is
              required). <p>Note the differences highlighted in<b> control_plane.yml </b>linked
                below and make appropriate changes as found in the right-hand column.</p>
              <xref href="../html/control_plane_yml.html" format="html">See changes to
                control_plane.yml</xref>
            </li></ol></li>
          <li> Add a baremetal node entry for the deployer node to the servers list in servers.yml
          and assign it a new role, shown as HLM-ROLE in the linked page: <xref
            href="../html/servers_yml.html" format="html">See changes to servers.yml</xref>
        </li>
      
    <li>Add the new HLM-ROLE role to the list of server-roles, e.g. to server_roles.yml. This role is required 
      to differentiate the single dedicated HLM node from the remaining target nodes in the server allocation, in 
      the linked page:Note that in this example, a different interface model and disk model are defined for the HLM
      role as the HLM node will typically differ from the cloud nodes in this regard
      – this is covered in later sections on "Dedicated Deployer/HLM network" and "Separate disk model for
      Dedicated Deployer/HLM node".
    
      <xref href="../html/server_roles_yml.html" format="html">See changes to
        server_roles.yml</xref>
    </li>
    </ol>
    
    </section>
    <section><title>Shared Deployer Node</title> For Beta2 clouds using a shared deployer
      node, the following changes are required to add the new lifecycle-manager and
      lifecycle-manager-target service components into the cloud model: 
      
      <ol><li>Add lifecycle-manager service component to a control plane cluster. Note that while the
          lifecycle-manager is depicted as existing across the cluster, for HP Helion OpenStack 2.0,
          only one of these nodes can serve as the deployer/HLM node (the first node deployed using
          the HP Helion OpenStack ISO), i.e. HA of the deployer/HLM is not supported. </li><li>Add lifecycle-manager-target to the list
      of common-service-components. 
      
      </li><li>Change the now deprecated resource-nodes section to resources
      and remove the nova-kvm service component, which is redundant (nova-compute-kvm covers what is
      required). <p><xref href="../html/control_plane_yml2.html" format="html">See changes to
          control_plane.yml</xref></p></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Dedicated Deployer Network</title> For Beta2 clouds deployed using a dedicated
      network for deployer/HLM traffic, the following sets of changes are required to represent the
      network in the cloud model: 
      <ol>
      <li>Add a new network group (named HLM below) to network-groups
        (e.g. in network_groups.yml): see linked file
      <p><xref href="../html/network_groups_yml.html" format="html">See changes to
          network_groups.yml</xref></p> 
        
      </li><li>Add a new network (named HLM-NET below) to networks (e.g. in net_global.yml) with this network
          as a member of the above-defined HLM network group. Note that this network must be an
          untagged VLAN. Note that the address range of this network must match the ip_addr values
          of the servers in servers.yml. <p><xref href="../html/net_global_yml.html" format="html"
              >See changes to net_global.yml</xref></p>
        </li><li>Add a new interface model (named HLM-INTERFACES below) to interface-models (e.g. in
          interfaces_set_1.yml), identifying the interface assigned for carrying HLM traffic; also
          need to assign the interface used for HLM traffic in the pre-existing interface models
          used for target cloud nodes (in this example, all target cloud nodes are covered in the
          same interface model file). Note that this example shows using a dedicated network
          interface. If you are using the same interfaces as other network groups then the other
          networks must all be tagged VLANS (as the deployment network must be untagged) see file
              <p><xref href="../html/interfaces_set_1_yml.html" format="html">See changes to
              interfaces_set_1.yml</xref></p>
        </li><li>If your model includes server groups add the new HLM-NET network to the list of global networks
          (e.g. in server_groups.yml): see file <p><xref href="../html/server_groups_yml.html"
              format="html">See changes to server_groups.yml</xref></p>
        </li></ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Shared Network for Deployer/HLM traffic </title> No changes are required to an
      existing Beta2 model to represent this network setup. <p>There are additional validation that
        the ip-addr values of the servers in servers.yml are in range of the shared
      network.</p></section>
    <section><title>Separate disk model for the dedicated deployer node</title> A separate disk
      model will be typically required for the dedicated HLM node; this should be added to
        <i>disk-models</i>, as done in the following, which uses a new YAML file for the HLM disk
      model definition (disks_hlm.yml). This disk model also needs to be referenced in the
      appropriate role, as shown above in the "Dedicated Deployer/HLM Node" section. The new YAML
      file is shown
      below:<codeblock>
disk-models:
- name: HLM-DISKS
  volume-groups:
  # The policy is not to consume 100% of the space of each volume group.
  # 5% should be left free for snapshots and to allow for some flexibility.
  # sda_root is a templated value to align with whatever partition is really used
  # This value is checked in OS config and replaced by the partition actually used
  # on sda e.g. sda1 or sda5
    - name: hlm-vg
      physical-volumes:
        - /dev/sda_root
      logical-volumes:
        - name: root
          size: 95%
          fstype: ext4
          mount: /
      consumer:
        name: os</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section><title>Firewall Settings</title> The cloudConfig.yml file can be updated to
      enable/disable the setting of firewall rules as follows. <p>Note that "data-dir" has been
        removed as it was never used.</p>The example enables the setting of firewalls according the
      networking requirements of each service on a node; the default is for this to be enabled. see
      file <p><xref href="../html/cloud_config_yml.html" format="html">See changes to
          cloudConfig.yml</xref></p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 includes the feature to add firewall rules for enabling access
        between services across the deployed cloud. The following is an example of a firewall rules
        file:</p>
      <codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2
#
# HP Helion OpenStack will create firewall rules to enable the required access for
# all of the deployed services. Use this section to define any
# additional access.
#
# Each group of rules can be applied to one or more network groups
# Examples are given for ping and ssh
#
# Names of rules, (e.g. "PING") are arbitrary and have no special significance
#
  firewall-rules:
    - name: SSH
      # network-groups is a list of all the network group names
      # that the rules apply to
      network-groups:
      - MGMT
      rules:
      - type: allow
        # range of remote addresses in CIDR format that this
        # rule applies to
        remote-ip-prefix:  0.0.0.0/0
        port-range-min: 22
        port-range-max: 22
        # protocol must be one of: null, tcp, udp or icmp
        protocol: tcp
    - name: PING
      network-groups:
      - MGMT
      - HLM
      rules:
      # open ICMP echo request (ping)
      - type: allow
        remote-ip-prefix:  0.0.0.0/0
        # icmp type
        port-range-min: 8
        # icmp code
        port-range-max: 0
        protocol: icmp</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Performing the Upgrade</title> The starting point for upgrading is a working deployment
      of the Beta 2 release. To begin, log in to the deployer node as the user you created during
      the Beta 2 deployment, and mount the GA install media at /media/cdrom; for example:
      <codeblock>sudo mount hLinux-cattleprod-amd64-blaster-netinst-20151005-hlm.&lt;<i>build-date_sha1</i>>.iso /media/cdrom</codeblock>
      Unpack the following tarball: Note needs file name
      <codeblock>tar faxv /media/cdrom/hos/hos-2.0.0-rc1-20151012T062322Z.tar</codeblock> Run the
      included initialization script to update the deployer:
      <codeblock>~/hos-2.0.0-b.rc1/hos-init.bash</codeblock> Prepare the new Ansible tree for the
      upgrade run,, assuming you have made the necessary YAML config file changes above. Resolve any
      merge conflicts that may have arisen: <codeblock>cd ~/helion
git status</codeblock> Run the
      config processor:
      <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock>
      Run the ready deployment playbook:
      <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock> Run the
      upgrade playbook:
      <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-upgrade.yml</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
