<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hjr_4x1_dt">
  <title>Install and Configure VSA (optional)</title>
  <body>
    <section id="VSA">
      <title>Install and Configure VSA (optional)</title>
      <p>You can set up Virtual Storage Appliance (VSA) using the following instructions:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Deploy VSA by running the following command: <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts vsa-deploy.yml </codeblock>
          <!--<ul>
            <li>If the output has the following error, manually upload the file to that location
              then rerun vsa-deploy:
              <codeblock>
stderr: tar: /opt/stack/service/vsa/venv/lib/helion-vsa-11.5.01.0079.tgz:
Cannot open: No such file or directory</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>The file can be found at http://10.1.56.95/helion-vsa-11.5.01.0079.tgz.</li>
            <li>This is a temporary issue and should be fixed by the next release.</li>
          </ul>-->
          Before running the next step, Deploy CMC, do the following on the first control plane
          node. <ul>
            <li> Look in <b>/etc/apt/sources.list.d/</b> for a file called
                <b>cmc_hlinux_32bit_lib</b> with the following content:
              <codeblock>deb [arch=i386] http://&lt;deployer ip>:79/hlm/cmc32 cattleprod main </codeblock>
              If the file is not there or does not have the above content, please create it as
              described. The deployer ip address can be obtained by looking at the existing hlinux
              apt source file in that directory. This is a workaround for an issue in Beta-1 and
              will be fixed in Beta-2. </li>
            <li>Next, to re-synchronize the package index files, run
              <codeblock>sudo apt-get update</codeblock></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <!--<li>Configure Apt by adding the following line to the bottom of <b>/etc/apt/sources.list</b>
          on your CMC node (only). Use the correct numeric IP for your deployer.
          <codeblock>deb [arch=i386] http://&lt;<i>deployer ip</i>>:79/hlm/cmc32 cattleprod main </codeblock>
          This is a workaround for an issue in Beta-1 and will be fixed in Beta-2. </li>-->
        <li>Deploy CMC by running the following
            command:<p><codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cmc-deploy.yml</codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Note that the IP numbers of VSA VMs from ansible output appear as follows:
          <codeblock>
NIC 1: 
Virtual Network: vsa-network 
IP Address: 10.241.103.11
Subnet Mark: 255.255.255.0
Gateway: 10.241.103.1</codeblock></li>
        <li>Set your X display and launch CMC:
          <codeblock>ssh -X to the first control plane node</codeblock><codeblock>/opt/HP/StoreVirtual/UI/jre/bin/java -jar /opt/HP/StoreVirtual/UI/UI.jar</codeblock></li>
        <li>Select <codeph>Find</codeph> and enter the IP addresses of the VSA virtual
          machines.</li>
        <li>Choose Tasks -&gt; Management Group -&gt; New Management Group from the menu above.</li>
        <li>Enter the following name for the management group, for example:
            <codeph>hlm003-vsa-mg</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Enter the following username and password: stack / stack</li>
        <li>Add NTP servers information.</li>
        <li>Skip the DNS and SMTP sections.</li>
        <li>Add the following cluster name: hlm003-vsa-cluster</li>
        <li>Enter the VIP IP which can be found as the cluster IP value in the
            <codeph>~helion/my_cloud/stage/info/net_info.yml</codeph> file</li>
        <li>Select the checkbox to skip volume creation.</li>
        <li>Wait for completion.</li>
        <li>On the deployer, change to the following directory:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion</codeblock></li>
        <li>Edit the <codeph>hos/ansible/roles/_CND-CMN/templates/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file as
          follows: <ol>
            <li>Change the enabled_backends line to:
              <codeblock>enabled_backends=vsa-1</codeblock></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>Copy the VSA section, uncomment it, and fill the values as in the following example.
          Note that the ames assigned (in bold) are only examples. Please enter your specific values here.<codeblock>
[vsa-1]<b>
hplefthand_password: stack
hplefthand_clustername: hlm003-vsa-cluster
hplefthand_api_url: https://10.241.103.7:8081/lhos
hplefthand_username: stack</b>
hplefthand_iscsi_chap_enabled: true<b>
volume_backend_name: vsa-backend-hlm003</b>
volume_driver: cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_lefthand_iscsi.HPLeftHandISCSIDriver
hplefthand_debug: false</codeblock>
          <note>Until horizon is enabled, the <codeph>volume_backend_name</codeph> is not
            used.</note></li>
        <li>Run the following commands to commit and deploy the change:
          <codeblock>
git add -A
git commit -m "your commit message goes here in quotes"
cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml
cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create a volume to verify the VSA is correctly configured, then delete the created
          volume. <ol>
            <li>Create a test volume from a user account and verify that the volume is successfully
              created in the "available" state.</li>
            <li>Using a session with the admin creds, show the details for the test volume created
              in a) above <codeblock>cinder show &lt;volumeId></codeblock> and verify that the
              volume was created on the correct backend, e.g.
              <codeblock>os-vol-host-attr:host                                                                         
ha-volume-manager@vsa-1#vsa-backend-hlm003</codeblock>
            </li>
            <li>Delete the test volume</li>
          </ol>
        </li>
        </ol>
      
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
