<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_exb_b21_ct">
  <title>Create and Expand Clusters with the<i> cf-mgmt</i> Tool</title>
  <body><section>
    <p>Not all cluster management and creation features are available through the Horizon console.
        The<i> cf-mgmt</i> tool can take direct input or leverage a bootstrap file to simplify
      cluster creation and expansion. </p>
    <p>The following are examples on how to create and grow clusters using the <i>cf-mgmt</i>
        tool:</p>
  <ul>
    <li><xref href="cfmgmt_createcluster_starter.dita">Create a small cluster</xref> with one core
      node and one DEA.</li>
    <li><xref href="cfmgmt_growcluster_addDEANode.dita">Add a DEA node</xref> to an existing
          cluster. </li>
    <li><xref href="cfmgmt_growcluster_addservice.dita">Add a service</xref> to an existing cluster. </li></ul></section>
    <section><title>Prerequisites</title>
      <ul><li>The Helion Development Platform must be installed.</li>
        <li>The <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool must be <xref
          href="ALS_Client_Downloads.dita#topic843/hp-helion-als-cluster-management-tool-cf-mgmt"
          >downloaded</xref> and installed.</li>
        <li>If creating clusters that support Keystone v3, you will need to <xref
            href="cfmgmt_configure_keystonev3.dita#topic_j5v_bsb_rt">modify the configuration
            file</xref> first.</li>
      </ul></section>
    <section><title>Tips</title><ul>
      <li>To minimize the risk of errors, best practice is to create a small, starter cluster and
        then expand it, not create a huge cluster all at once.</li><li>For convenience, copy the code blocks into a text editor, edit them there, and then paste back
          into the <varname>cf-mgmt</varname> tool as necessary.</li><li>You may also want to refer to the full <i>cf-mgmt </i>tool <xref
            href="ALS_Client_Reference.dita">command reference documentation</xref>.</li>
        <li>When executing any command for the first time, include the <codeph>--dry-run</codeph>
          option. This will help detect potential configuration or environmental issues before
          making any actual changes.</li></ul></section>
  </body>
</topic>
