<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cfmgmt_growcluster_add_service">
  <title><i>cf-mgmt</i> Tool Example: Add a Service to an Existing Cluster</title>
  <body>
    <p>This example demonstrates how to add a service to a cluster that already exists. </p>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <ul><li>The host for the examples needs to be able to reach your HPE Helion OpenStack environment.</li>
        <li><xref href="devplatform_downloadRCFile.dita#topic_rmk_gnx_ft">Download</xref> the RC
          configuration file. </li>
        <li><xref
          href="ALS_Client_Downloads.dita#topic843/hp-helion-als-cluster-management-tool-cf-mgmt"
          >Download</xref> the version of the cluster management (cf-mgmt) tool appropriate for
          your operating system.</li></ul>
    </section>
<section>
      <title>Create a Bootstrap Configuration File</title>
  <ol id="ol_ccd_l1b_dt">
    <li>
      <xref href="http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/1.3/config/bootstrap.yml" format="html"
        scope="external">Download</xref> the latest <i>bootstrap.yml</i> file and save it in a
      location where the <i>cf-mgmt </i>tool can access it. </li>
    <li>Rename <i>bootstrap.yml</i> to <i>bootstrap_dea.yml</i></li>
    <li>Open and configure the <i>bootstrap_dea.yml </i>file to match your environment. Ensure the
          values for image names, image sizes and availability zones ("az") are valid for your
          current configuration. Here is an example:
            <codeblock>constructor-image-name: HPE Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Installer 1.2.0.282 
constructor-flavor: standard.xsmall 
seed-node-image-name: HPE Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Seed Node 1.2.0.282 
core-flavor: standard.medium 
cluster-title: &lt;My Cluster Title&gt; 
cluster-prefix: &lt;My Cluster Prefix&gt;
services-on-core: false 
flavor: standard.medium  </codeblock><note>To
            add an existing Trove database, also include a value for the
              <codeph>--database-instance-id</codeph> parameter.</note></li>
   
    <li>Run the following command, inserting the correct values as appropriate. <ul>
            <li>This example will work for the <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> operating
              system.<codeblock>cf-mgmt.exe ^
   --os-auth-url &lt;auth-url&gt; ^
   --os-username &lt;username&gt; ^
   --os-password &lt;password&gt; ^ 
   --os-tenant-id &lt;id&gt; ^
   --os-tenant-name "&lt;tenant-name&gt;" ^
   --os-region-name "&lt;region-name&gt;" ^
  add-service mysql ^
   --keypair-name &lt;keypair name&gt; ^
   --load bootstrap_service.yml </codeblock></li>
            <li>This example will work on Mac OSX or Linux:
              <codeblock>source &lt;path to openstackrc file>
cf-mgmt.exe \
  add-service mysql \
   --keypair-name &lt;keypair name&gt; \
   --load bootstrap_service.yml </codeblock></li>
          </ul></li></ol>
</section>  
<section><title>Related Links</title>
    <sl>
      <sli><xref href="cfmgmt_createcluster_starter.dita">Create A Starter Cluster</xref></sli>
      <sli><xref href="cfmgmt_growcluster_addDEANode.dita">Add a DEA Node to an Existing Cluster</xref></sli>
    <sli><xref href="ALS_Client_Reference.dita">ALS Cluster Management Tool Reference</xref></sli>
   </sl> </section>  </body> 
</topic>
