<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_a4c_11b_dt">
  <title><i>cf-mgmt</i> Tool Example: Create a Starter Cluster</title>
  <body>
   
            <p>The following is an example on how to create a small starter cluster with a core node
      and one DEA.</p>
    <p>You can create any number of identical clusters using the same bootstrap file. However, each
      configuration requires its own file. For example, if you need five medium and five small
      clusters, you would need two bootstrap files; one to create five identical medium clusters,
      and one to create five small.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <ul><li>The host for the examples needs to be able to reach your HPE Helion OpenStack environment.</li>
        <li><xref href="devplatform_downloadRCFile.dita#topic_rmk_gnx_ft">Download</xref> the RC
          configuration file. </li>
        <li><xref
            href="ALS_Client_Downloads.dita#topic843/hp-helion-als-cluster-management-tool-cf-mgmt"
            >Download</xref> the version of the cluster management (cf-mgmt) tool appropriate for
          your operating system.</li></ul>
    </section>

     <section>  <ol>
        <li>
          <xref href="http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/1.3/config/bootstrap.yml" format="html"
            scope="external">Download</xref> the latest <i>bootstrap.yml</i> and save it in a
          location where the <i>cf-mgmt </i>tool can access it.</li><li> Open and configure the <i>bootstrap.yml </i>file to match your environment. Ensure the values
          for image names, image sizes and availability zones ("az") are valid for your current
          configuration. Here is an
          example:<codeblock>constructor-image-name: HPE Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Installer 1.2.0.282 
constructor-flavor: standard.xsmall 
seed-node-image-name: HPE Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Seed Node 1.2.0.282 
core-flavor: standard.medium 
cluster-title: &lt;My Cluster Title&gt; 
cluster-prefix: &lt;My Cluster Prefix&gt;
dea-count: 1 
dea-flavor: standard.large
az: &lt;My Availability Zones&gt;</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the following installer command, inserting the correct values as appropriate.
            <note><sl><sli>The first time, execute the installer command with the <codeph>--dry-run</codeph>
            option included. This will help detect potential configuration or environmental issues
            before performing an actual installation.</sli>
              <sli>If you are using self-signed certificates, insert the
                  <codeph>--skip-ssl-validation</codeph> option before the
                  <codeph>create-cluster</codeph> command.</sli>
              <sli>For more details about commands and options, see the complete <xref
                  href="ALS_Client_Reference.dita#topic13234">cf-mgmt tool reference</xref>.</sli></sl></note><ul>
            <li> This example will work for the <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> operating
              system.<codeblock> cf-mgmt.exe ^
        --os-auth-url &lt;OpenStack authentication URL&gt; ^
        --os-username &lt;username&gt; ^
        --os-password &lt;password&gt; ^
        --os-tenant-id &lt;id&gt; ^
        --os-tenant-name "&lt;tenant-name&gt;" ^
        --os-region-name "&lt;region-name&gt;" ^
 create-cluster ^
        --keypair-name &lt;keypair name&gt; ^
        --admin-email &lt;admin email&gt; ^
        --admin-password &lt;admin password&gt; ^
        --load bootstrap.yml</codeblock></li>
            <li>This example will work on Mac OSX or Linux:
              <codeblock>source &lt;path to openstackrc file&gt;
cf-mgmt create-cluster \
   --keypair-name &lt;name of keypair&gt; \
   --admin-email &lt;your login&gt; \
   --admin-password &lt;your password&gt; \
   --load bootstrap.yml</codeblock></li>
          </ul></li></ol>
    </section>
 
    <section><title>Related Links</title>
      <sl>
        <sli><xref href="cfmgmt_growcluster_addservice.dita" >Add A Service to an Existing Cluster</xref></sli>
        <sli><xref href="cfmgmt_growcluster_addDEANode.dita">Add a DEA Node to an Existing Cluster</xref></sli>
        <sli><xref href="ALS_Client_Reference.dita">ALS Cluster Management Tool Reference</xref></sli>
      </sl> </section> 
 </body>  
</topic>
