<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6164">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Working with Host Storage</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-inventory-detail-storage.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/inventory/storage/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The <b>Storage</b> tab on the <b>Inventory Detail</b> page presents storage details for a host.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in regionone.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This page contains the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic6164/view">Viewing storage details</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic6164/local">Managing Local Volume Groups</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic6164/physical">Managing Physical Volumes</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="view"> <title>Viewing storage details</title>
<p>To view host storage information:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashbard/CGH-2-Admin-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>System Inventory</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the Host Name column, click the name of the locked host to open the <b>Inventory Detail</b> page for that host.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Storage</b> tab.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The information is presented in one or more lists, as determined by the host type.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Disks - This list is presented for all host types. It lists all available hardware devices used for storage. For each device, the
following information is included:</p>

<ul>
<li>UUID - The unique identifier for the device.</li>
<li>Node - The Linux device name.</li>
<li>Type - The type of storage device, typically a hard drive (disk).</li>
<li>Size - The capacity of the device in MiB.</li>
<li>Serial ID - The device's serial ID number.</li>
<li>Model - The manufacturer's model for the device.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Storage Volumes - This list is presented for storage hosts. It shows a list of logical storage volumes defined on available disks. For each volume, the following information is included:</p>

<ul>
<li>UUID - The unique identifier for the storage volume.</li>
<li>Name - The name assigned to the volume, if any.</li>
<li>Function - The type of storage backend handling the storage volume. The type OSD indicates that the storage volume is using the Ceph backend.</li>
</ul>
<p>For information about creating storage volumes or adding storage profiles, see the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software Installation Guide: Creating Storage Volumes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Local Volume Groups - This list is presented for compute nodes. It shows groups that provide local storage for use by VMs. For more
information, see <xref type="section" href="#topic6164/local">Managing Local Volume Groups</xref>.</p>

<p>For each group, the following information is provided:</p>

<ul>
<li>Name - The name assigned to the local volume group.</li>
<li>State - The availability of the local volume group.</li>
<li>Access - The access status of the volume group (writeable, readonly, resizeable, exported, partial, or clustered).</li>
<li>Size - The capacity of the device in bytes.</li>
<li>Current Physical Volumes - The number of physical volumes that define the local volume group.</li>
<li>Current Logical Volumes - The number of logical volumes contained by the local volume group.</li>
<li>Actions - Available actions that can be performed on the local volume group.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Physical Volumes - This list is presented for compute nodes. It shows physical volumes that provide local storage for use by VMs. For more information, see <xref type="section" href="#topic6164/physical">Managing Physical Volumes</xref>.</p>

<p>For each group, the following information is provided:</p>

<ul>
<li>Name - The device name associated with the physical volume.</li>
<li>State - The availability of the physical volume.</li>
<li>Type - The device type used for the physical volume.</li>
<li>Disk UUID - The unique identifier of the disk used to implement the physical volume.</li>
<li>Disk Device Node - The device used to implement the physical volume.</li>
<li>LVM Logical Group Name - The name of the local volume group to which the physical volume belongs.</li>
<li>Actions - Available actions that can be performed on the physical volume.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="local"> <title>Managing Local Volume Groups</title>
<p>You can add, delete, and review local volume groups on a compute host.</p>
<p>Local volume groups are used to designate physical volumes on a compute host as local storage for use by VMs.</p>
<p>You can use the web administration or the CLI to manage them. For web administration interface instructions, see Configuring a Compute Host to Provide Local Storage.</p>
<p>Before you can modify the settings for a host, you must lock the host:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>host-lock hostname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To configure a compute host to provide local storage for use by VMs, add a local volume group with the name novalocal.</p>
<p>The following CLI commands are available for managing local volume groups.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>host-lvg-add hostname groucodeph

where 
* groucodeph is the name of the local volume group to which the physical volume is added
* where hostname is the name of the host system``

**Note:** The only valid groucodeph is nova-local.

host-lvg-delete hostname nova-local
host-lvg-list hostname
host-lvg-show hostname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To complete the configuration of a compute host for local storage, you must also add physical volumes to the <codeph>nova-local</codeph> local volume group. For more information, see <xref type="section" href="#topic6164/physical">Managing Physical Volumes</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="physical"> <title>Managing Physical Volumes</title>
<p>You can add, delete, and review physical volumes on a compute host.</p>
<p>Physical volumes provide storage using local disks. You can use the web administration or the CLI to manage them.</p>
<p>For web administration interface instructions, see Configuring a Compute Host to Provide Local Storage.</p>
<p>As each physical volume is created, it is added to an existing local volume group. Before you can modify the settings for a host, you must lock the host:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>host-lock &lt;hostname&gt;

where hostname is the name of the host system
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Before you can add a physical volume, a local volume group must exist on the host. To create one, see <xref type="section" href="#topic6164/local">Managing Local Volume Groups</xref>.</p>
<p>The following CLI commands are available for managing physical volumes.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>host-pv-add hostname &lt;groucodeph&gt; disk_uuid

where 
* groucodeph is the name of the local volume group to which the physical volume is added
* where hostname is the name of the host system``
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> The only valid group name is <codeph>nova-local</codeph>.</p>
<p>When disk_uuid indicates the root disk, the physical volume uses a system-designated partition on the root disk. For any other disk, the physical volume uses the entire disk.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>host-pv-delete hostname nova-local disk_uuid
host-pv-list hostname
host-pv-show hostname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To configure VMs to use local storage, see Specifying Local Storage for a VM.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic6164/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
