<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2010">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1: Using as an Admin User</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/1.1commercial.dashboard.admin.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/admin/--></p>
<p>The Admin dashboard enables you to work within the current cloud domain. You can access tools to work with the Compute, Network, Object Operations, and Orchestration services.</p>
<p>As an administrator (admin), you can perform all of the <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/1.1commercial.dashboard.users.dita" >user tasks</xref> in addition to the admin tasks.</p>
<section id="managing-domains"> <title>Managing Domains</title>
<p>A domain is a high-level container for projects, users, and groups that defines administrative boundaries for management of those entities. A domain can represent an individual, company, or operator owned space.</p>
<p>You can manage:</p>
<ul>
<li>flavors</li>
<li>images</li>
<li>quotas</li>
<li>host aggregates</li>
<li>services</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Domains/1.1commercial.managing.domains.dita" >Managing Domains</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2010"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-projects"> <title>Managing projects</title>
<p>You can create new projects and manage existing projects, such as controlling access to projects by assigning roles to users and groups.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Projects/1.1commercial.managing.projects.dita" >Managing Projects</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2010"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-networks"> <title>Managing networks</title>
<p>A network is a pluggable, scalable system for managing networks and IP addresses.</p>
<p>You can use the dashboards to create, delete, and configure your HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> subnet(s) and ports.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Networks/1.1commercial.managing.network.dita" >Managing Networks</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2010"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-users"> <title>Managing users</title>
<p>You can use the dashboard to create new users, assign users to projects, and change a user password as needed.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Users/1.1commercial.managing.users.dita" >Managing Users</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2010"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-images"> <title>Managing images</title>
<p>You can use the dashboards to determine if an image snapshot is available only in the current project or to all projects in the domain.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.snapshot.public.dita" >Making an Image Public</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-security"> <title>Managing security</title>
<p>You can use the dashboards to change the password for a user, as needed.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Security/1.1commercial.dashboard.users.password.dita" >Changing a User Password</xref>.</p>
<!-- Not  in UI yet
### Managing roles ###

You can use the dashboard to define user roles that can be used to control access to projects and domains. 

For more information, see [Managing Roles](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/roles/).

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top </a>


### Managing instances ###

You can use the dashboards to manage instances created by other users. You can lock, pause, suspend a particular instance and you can also migrate an instance to a different host system. 
with minimal downtime (live migrate).

For more information, see [Managing Instances](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/instances/).
-->
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
