<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rmq_j1v_4t">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Refining Access Control with AppArmor</title>
  <body>
   <section id="intro">
      <p> AppArmor is a Mandatory Access Control (MAC) system as opposed to a discretionay access
        control system. It is a kernel-level security module for Linux that controls
        access to low-level resources based on rights granted via policies to a program rather than to a
        user role. It enforces rules at the lowest software layer --the kernel level, preventing
        software from circumventing resource restrictions that reside at levels above the kernel.
        With AppArmor, the final gatekeeper is closest to the hardware.</p>
      <p>Controlling resource access per application vs per user role allows you to enforce rules
        based on specifically what a program can do versus trying to create user roles that are
        broad enough yet specific enough to apply to a group of users. In addition, it prevents the
        trap of having to predict all possible vulnerabilities in order to be secure.</p>
      <p>AppArmor uses a hybrid of whitelisting and blacklisting rules, and its security policies
        are/can be cascading, permitting inheritance from different or more general policies. Policies
        are enforced on a per-process basis.</p>
      <p>AppArmor also lets you tie a process to a CPU core if you want, and set process
        priority.</p>
      <p> AppArmor profiles are loaded into the kernel, typically on boot. They can run in either
        enforcement or complain modes. In enforcement mode, the policy is enforced and policy
        violation attempts are reported. In complain mode, policy violation attempts are reported but
        not prevented. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="apparmor_helion"><title>Using AppArmor in HPE Helion&#174; OpenStack</title>
      <title>TBD...</title></section>
  </body>
</topic>
