<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic12031">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: What's In The Build</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Joel B"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 2.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack is a commercial-grade distribution of OpenStack the leading open source cloud computing platform. This distribution, backed by HP, enables customers to more easily build, manage, and use open-source based hybrid clouds in a resilient, maintainable platform. HP Helion OpenStack enables cost-effective scalability of IT services and business agility and, as part of the HP Helion portfolio, it is backed by a wide range of related cloud products, services, and professional support.</p>
<p>In the Helion OpenStack 2.0 release, these are the features you can expect:</p>
<ul>
   <li>Baremetal install that includes:
      <ul>
       <li>updating the configuration</li>
       <li>adding nodes</li>
       <li>adding VSA, etc</li>
      </ul>
   </li> 
  <li>Full set of Kilo-based OpenStack services</li>
  <li>Uses Config Process v2.0</li>
  <li>NIC bonding, Multi-NIC support, and Network separation (including VLAN</li>
  <li>VSA as a Cinder block storage provider</li>
  <li>Multiple Provider VLANs as external networks</li>
  <li>OpsConsole</li>
  <li>Monitoring</li>
  <li>Basic NTP and DNS integration</li>
  <li>Control plan backup and restore</li>
  <li>LBaaS, FWaaS, and VPNaaS</li>
  <li>TLS only on external API</li>
  <li>Logging</li>
</ul>
<section id="Baremetal-install"> <title>Baremetal Install Kit</title>
</section>
<section id="Kiloset"><title>Full set of Kilo-based OpenStack services</title>
</section>
<section id="NicBonding"><title>NIC Bonding</title>
</section>
<section id="LBaaS"><title>LBaaS</title>
<p>LBaaS (Load-Balancing-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a load balancing feature set. Helion OpenStack 2.0 includes the V2 version which allows flexible load balancing of multiple ports on one VIP. The included reference implementation uses haproxy but 3rd party Load Balancers can be integrated as well. In case that a 3rd party driver doesn’t exist for LBaaS V2 installing LBaaS V1 instead of V2 is supported.</p>
<p>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS</xref></p>
</section>
<section id="FWaaS"><title>FWaaS</title>
<p>FWaaS (FireWall-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a firewall feature set. The included reference implementation is using iptables to block traffic but 3rd party Firewalls can be integrated with this extension into Helion OpenStack as well.</p>
<p>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS</xref></p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>