<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3076">
<title>Welcome to HPE Helion Documentation</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./publiccloud/index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /--></p>
<!-- <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/38064508?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" width="580" height="420" frameborder="0"> </iframe> -->
<p>HPE Helion provides public, private, and managed cloud solutions to get you moving on your cloud journey. Whichever HPE Helion product you are using, we have all the documentation resources and references for you.</p>
  <simpletable id="homepageTable" relcolwidth="1.0* 5.06*">
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.index.dita">HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm></xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>A commercial grade software solution that enables customers to deploy private,
          managed, hybrid, and public cloud services based on OpenStack HP
          Helion OpenStack reduces complexity of cloud deployments, and is the
          underlying platform for the Helion Development Platform.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="community/community.index.dita" type="section">HPE Helion OpenStack Community</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Pure and free-to-license distribution of OpenStack technology
          for small scale open cloud environments. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="devplatform/1.2devplatform.index.dita">HPE Helion Development
            Platform</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Based on <tm tmtype="tm">Cloud Foundry</tm>, this add-on for Helion OpenStack empowers developers and IT professionals with an open
          development platform designed for agility. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="euca/euca-landing-page.dita">HPE Helion Eucalyptus</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Open source software that enables IT leaders to easily build, deploy and manage
          AWS-compatible hybrid clouds. With HPE Helion Eucalyptus, users can rapidly migrate
          existing AWS applications and workloads to a private or managed cloud environment.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="publiccloud/publiccloud-overview.dita">HPE Helion Public Cloud</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Provides a transparent, enterprise-grade public cloud based on OpenStack technology with on-demand, pay-as-you-go cloud services for computing
          and storage infrastructure as well as platform services. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="automation/csa.index.dita">HPE Cloud Service Automation</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Provides open, heterogeneous, extensible enterprise-grade cloud service lifecycle
          management to design and orchestrate full stack services. CSA embraces existing automation
          assets with an enhanced orchestration engine, which provides IT with an informed,
          transparent delivery of secure compliant services for the hybrid cloud. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="codar-landing-page.dita">HPE Codar </xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>A continuous delivery solution that provides automated deployment and release
          management of complex multi-tier applications across the application lifecycle. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="cloudsystem.landingpage.dita">HPE CloudSystem Foundation</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Integrates hardware and software to deliver core Infrastructure as a Service
          provisioning and lifecycle management of compute, network and storage resources.
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="cloudsystem.landingpage.dita">HPE CloudSystem Enterprise</xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Expands on CloudSystem Foundation to integrate servers, storage, networking,
          security, and management to automate the lifecycle for hybrid service delivery. </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
          <xref href="helion.rack.solution.dita">HPE Helion Cloud Solutions </xref>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Built, tested, and validated by HPE cloud experts, our optimized cloud solutions are
          based on HPE Helion OpenStack industry-leading HPE ProLiant servers
          and supporting HPE Helion product and service offerings. Solutions like HPE Helion Content
          Depot and HPE Helion Rack include everything you need to be successful when facing a
          demanding cloud use case. </stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
</body>
</topic>