<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="install_overview">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Installation Overview</title>
  <body>
    <section id="overview">
      <p>Before jumping into your installation, we recommend taking the time to read through our
          <xref href="../example_configurations.dita">Example Configurations</xref> documentation to
        get an overview of the sample configurations HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 offers. We have highly
        tuned example configurations for each of these Cloud models:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="../example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_kvm_vsa"
            >Entry-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_esx"
            >Entry-scale ESX model</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_swift"
            >Entry-scale Swift model</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/entryscale_ceph"
            >Entry-scale KVM with Ceph model</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../example_configurations.dita#example_configurations/midscale_kvm_vsa"
            >Mid-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p>We also have a <xref href="preinstall_checklist.dita">Pre-Installation Checklist</xref> we
        recommend going through to ensure your environment meets the requirements of the Cloud model
        you choose.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="about"><title>Helion OpenStack 2.0 Installation</title>
      <p>Once you have an idea of the configuration you want to choose for your cloud and you have
        gone through the pre-installation steps, you have two options for installation. You can use
        a GUI that runs in your web browser or you can install via the command-line that exposes the
        full power and flexibility of HP Helion OpenStack 2.0.</p>
      <p>You should use the GUI if: <ul>
          <li>You are installing a simple demo or proof-of-concept cloud. </li>
          <li>You have less than 15 nodes (it will work for larger numbers but entering all that
            data in the GUI will get tiresome). </li>
          <li>You are not planning to deploy availability zones or use L3 segmentation in your
            initial deployment. </li>
          <li>You are happy with the tuned HP default OpenStack configuration.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>Instructions for installing via the GUI are here.</p>
    </section>
    <ul>
      <li><xref href="../gui_installer.dita#install_gui">Installing via the GUI</xref></li>
    </ul>
    <section>Note that reconfiguration of your cloud, at the moment, can only be done via the
      command-line. The GUI installer is for initial installation only. </section>
    <section>You should use the command-line if: <ul id="ul_wbl_2lw_kt">
        <li>You are installing a more complex or large-scale cloud. </li>
        <li>You have more than 15 nodes. </li>
        <li>You need to use availability zones or the server groups functionality of the cloud
          model. See the <xref href="../input_model.dita#input_model">Input Model page</xref> for
          more information. </li>
        <li>You want to customize the cloud configuration beyond the tuned defaults that HP provides
          out of the box. </li>
        <li>You need deeper customizations than are possible to express using the GUI.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>Instructions for installing via the command-line are here:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="install_entryscale_kvm.dita">Installation for Helion Entry-scale KVM
            Cloud</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="install_entryscale_esx.dita">Installation for Helion Entry-scale ESX
            Cloud</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Other useful documents that will help you understand, plan, configure, and install your
        cloud are listed below.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="using_git.dita">Using Git for Configuration Management</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="installation_troubleshooting.dita">Troubleshooting Your
          Installation</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="installation_verification.dita">Verifying Your Installation</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="postinstall_checklist.dita">Common Post-Installation Steps</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
