<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_q5q_trz_jt">
  <title>Verify Backend Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the procedure to create volume type, associate volume type to backend,
      create volume, attach volume, detach volume, and delete volume. You perform this operation to
      verify the configuration of backend (VSA, Ceph, and 3PAR).</p>
    <section>
      <title>Create Volume Type to Verify the Configuration of Backend</title>
      <p><!--Volumes are the Block Storage devices that you attach to instances to enable persistent storage.-->
        <!--You can attach a volume or detach a volume and attach it to another instance at any time. You can also create and delete volume type and volumes.--></p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to create a volume using Horizon dashboard:</p>
      <p>
        <ol id="ol_ldf_fxc_gt">
          <li>Log into the Horizon dashboard as <b>Admin</b>. The Horizon dashboard displays with
            the options in the left panel.</li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Admin</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b> tab
            to display the Volumes page.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Create Volume Type</b> to display a dialog box.</li>
          <li>Enter a unique name for the volume type. </li>
          <li>Click<b> Create Volume Type</b> to complete the action. Clicking <b>Cancel</b> returns
            to the Volumes screen without completing the action.<p>The newly created volume displays
              in the Volumes>Volume Types page.</p></li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="associate-volume-backend">
      <title>Associate the Volume Type to a Backend</title>
      <p> After the volume type names have been created, you can assign extra_specs to the volumes
        types.</p>
      <p>To map a volume type to a backend, do the following: <ol id="ol_owv_krv_3t">
          <li>Login to the Horizon dashboard. The Horizon dashboard displays with the options in the
            left panel.</li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Admin</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b> tab
            to display the Volumes  page. </li>
          <li>Click <b>Volumes</b>>  <b>Volume Type</b>. </li>
          <li>Click <b>View Extra Specs</b> displayed against the volume type which you want to
            associate to the backend. <p>The <b>Create Volume Type Extra Specs</b> dialog box
              displays. Now map the volume type to the associate backend.</p></li>
          <li>In the <b>Key</b> box, enter <i>volume_banked_name</i> as extra spec key. This is the
            name of the key used to specify the storage backend when provisioning volumes of this
            volume type. The volume backend name must match the backend name mentioned in the
              <codeph>cinder.conf</codeph> file. </li>
          <li>In the <b>Value</b> box, enter the name of the backend to which you want to associate
            the volume type. <p>For example: You can enter the following backend name for the
              respective backend used. The backend name is mentioned in the
                <codeph>cinder.conf</codeph> file.<ul id="ul_u4j_1vz_jt">
                <li>VSA: You can enter <codeph>vsa-backend-hlm003</codeph> in the <b>Value</b>
                  field. In value is taken from <xref
                    href="vsa/vsa.dita#topic_gmc_dgk_jt/vssa-config">VSA cinder.conf.j2</xref>.</li>
                <li>Ceph: You can enter <codeph>ceph</codeph> in the <b>Value</b> field. In value is
                  taken from <xref href="ceph/ceph_deploy.dita#topic_jrc_5lz_ft/ceph-cinder-conf"
                    >Ceph cinder.conf.j2</xref>.</li>
                <li>3PAR FC: You can enter <codeph>3par_FC</codeph> in the <b>Value</b> field. In
                  value is taken from <xref
                    href="3Par/3par_configuration.dita#topic_vln_2xy_ht/3par-fc">3PAR FC
                    cinder.conf.j2</xref>.</li>
                <li>3PAR iSCSI : You can enter <codeph>3par_iscsi</codeph> in the <b>Value</b>
                  field. In value is taken from <xref
                    href="3Par/3par_configuration.dita#topic_vln_2xy_ht/3par-iscsi">3PAR iSCSI
                    cinder.conf.j2</xref>.</li>
              </ul></p></li>
          <li>Click <b>Create</b> to create the extra volume type specs. <note> Once the volume type
              is mapped to the backend, you can create volumes with this volume type.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section id="create-volume">
      <title>Create Volume from User Account</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to create a volume using Horizon dashboard. <ol
          id="ol_syw_xw3_jt">
          <li>Log into the Horizon dashboard. The Horizon dashboard displays with the options in the
            left panel. </li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Project</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b>
            tab to display the Volumes page.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Create Volume</b> to display a dialog box.</li>
          <li>Enter the required details in the corresponding fields. </li>
          <li>Click<b> Create Volume </b> to complete the action. Clicking <b>Cancel</b> returns to
            the Volumes screen without completing the action.<p>The volume is successfully created
              and the status of the volume is available.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Attach Volume to an Instance</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to attach a volume to an instance:<ol id="ol_myj_2jj_jt">
          <li>Log into the Horizon dashboard. The Horizon dashboard displays with the options in the
            left panel. </li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Project</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b>
            tab to display the Volumes page.</li>
          <li>Click the check box next to the name of the volume you want to attach. </li>
          <li>In the Action column, click <b>Edit Attachments</b> The Manage Volume Attachments
            screen is displayed.</li>
          <li>.In the <b>Attach To Instance</b> drop-down, select the instance that you want to
            attach to the volume. </li>
          <li> Edit the <b>Device Name</b> if necessary.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Attach Volume</b> to complete the action. Clicking <b>Cancel</b> returns to
            the Volumes screen without completing the action. </li>
          <li>Verify that the volume you attached is displayed in the Attached To columns on the
            Volumes screen.<p> Zones are created and activated in switch effective configuration
              after the successful attachment of volume to an instance.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Detach Volume from Instance</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to detach the volume from instance:<ol id="ol_edq_pkj_jt">
          <li>Log into the Horizon dashboard. The Horizon dashboard displays with the options in the
            left panel. </li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Project</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b>
            tab to display the Volumes page.</li>
          <li>Click the check box next to the name of the volume you want to attach. </li>
          <li>In the Action column, click <b>Edit Attachments</b> The Manage Volume Attachments
            screen is displayed.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Detach Attachment</b>. A confirmation dialog box appears.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Detach Attachment</b> to confirm the detachment of the volume from the
            associated instance. Clicking <b>Cancel</b> returns to the Volumes screen without
            completing the action.<p>When you detach the last volume from an instance running on the
              compute host, zones are deleted and removed from the effective configuration.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Delete Volume from User Account</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to delete a volume using Horizon dashboard:</p>
      <p>
        <ol id="ol_sdl_vy3_jt">
          <li>Log into the Horizon dashboard. The Horizon dashboard displays with the options in the
            left panel. </li>
          <li>From the left panel, click the <b>Project</b> tab and then click the <b>Volumes</b>
            tab to display the Volumes page.</li>
          <li>Check the box in the row of the volume to delete.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Delete Volume</b> to display the dialog box.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Delete the Volume</b> to confirm the deletion of the selected volume. To exit
            without deleting the volume and to close the screen, click <b>Cancel</b> before
            deleting.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
