<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3888">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: PHP Hello World Sample</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/workbook/helloworld/1.0helloworld.php.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/workbook/helloworld/php/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>This very simple PHP web app displays the text "Hello World!". This is a demonstration of the minimum requirements to build a functional application. Use this sample to ensure that you have set up your environment for deployment to Helion Development Platform.</p>
<section id="prerequisites"> <title>Prerequisites</title>
<p>If you are missing any of these items, you must <xref href="../../../devplatform/1.0devplatform.appdev.dita" >install them</xref>.</p>
<ul>
<li>Access to an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) <xref href="../../../devplatform/helion/admin/cluster/1.0index.dita" >Cluster</xref>
</li>
<li>The  <xref href="../../../devplatform/helion/user/client/1.0index.dita" >Helion command-line interface (CLI)</xref> must be installed.</li>
<li>Access to the web-based <xref href="../../../devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.dita" >Helion Management Console</xref>.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="download-the-application-files"> <title>Download the Application Files</title>
<p>
  <xref href="https://github.com/HelionDevPlatform/helion-hello-world-php" scope="external" format="html" >Click here to access the code repository.</xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="about-the-application-files"> <title>About the Application Files</title>
  <p>To create a <tm tmtype="tm">Cloud Foundry</tm> app in PHP, the only mandatory files are the <i>index.php</i> and <i>manifest.yml</i> files.</p>
<p>
<i>Manifest.yml</i> is a configuration file used to specify settings that would otherwise be specified by a command-line tool. For PHP, only the <b>name</b> and <b>buildpack</b> fields are required. The <b>buildpack</b> field is a URL for the buildpack that supports the necessary language and/or framework.</p>
<p>The <i>composer.json</i> file is completely optional; however, certain buildpacks may issue a warning if the file is not present.</p>
</section>
<section id="deploy-the-application"> <title>Deploy the Application</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Application Lifecycle Service clusters that require an upstream HTTP proxy to access the internet will need to be <xref href="../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0configuration.dita#staging-cache-app-http-proxy" >made aware of the proxy</xref>. The sample applications require access to the Internet in order to download dependent packages.</p>
<p>The Helion client to deploy your app to Helion Development Platform.  If you are using Eclipse, you can optionally <xref href="../../../devplatform/1.0devplatform.eclipse.dita" >use the plugin</xref> to deploy.</p>
<ol>
<li>Open the <xref href="../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0client-ref.dita" >Helion command-line interface (CLI)</xref>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that you are targeting your desired environment.  <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> If you are not, execute</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>helion target https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.example.com2. 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that you are logged in to your desired environment.  <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->If you are not, execute</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>helion login
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you are not already there, <codeph>cd</codeph> to the root directory of the sample.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Deploy the application by using the command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>helion push 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Accept any default values that you may be prompted for. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><b>Note</b>: By default, ALS Clusters are configured with two domains (private and public).  In some situations, the Helion CLI may prompt you to select a target domain.  If prompted, select the public domain from the given list (i.e. <i>&lt;app-name&gt;.xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.xip.io</i>)</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="key-code-snippets"> <title>Key Code Snippets</title>
<p>This simple PHP script prints "Hello World".</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>package org.hp.samples;
&lt;?php

echo "\n Hello World \n";

?&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The <i>manifest.yml</i> file is the configuration information used by ALS to set up the environment. The <b>buildpack</b> element here informs ALS on the correct buildpack to use for PHP, which ensures the correct tools and runtimes are installed in the application environment.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>---
applications:
- name: hello-world-php  
  buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/php-buildpack.git
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="run-the-application"> <title>Run the Application</title>
<ol>
<li>Open the Helion Management Console. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The Management Console is the web-based administrative interface that can be reached by typing the ALS endpoint URL into a browser window.</li>
<li>Click <b>Applications</b>.</li>
<li>If the file push was successful, you should see <b>hello-world-php</b> in the list of available applications.</li>
<li>The status of the application should be <b>Started</b>. click the name of the application to launch it.</li>
<li>In the upper right-hand corner, click <b>View App</b>.</li>
<li>You should see a simple text message: <b>Hello World!</b>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="key-learnings"> <title>Key Learnings</title>
<ol>
<li>ALS requires configuration information to create an environment for your app, including buildpack information for PHP. Configuration information is contained in the <i>manifest.yml</i> file.</li>
<li>You can deploy your app using either the Helion CLI or the Eclipse <xref href="../../../devplatform/1.0devplatform.eclipse.dita" >plugin</xref>.</li>
</ol>
<p>
<xref href="../../../devplatform/1.0devplatform.appdev.dita" >Exit Samples</xref> | <xref href="../.././devplatform/workbook/messaging/1.0messaging.php.dita" >Previous Sample</xref> | <xref href="../../../devplatform/workbook/database/1.0database.php.dita" >Next Sample</xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
