---
layout: 1.0default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: PHP Hello World Sample"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/workbook/helloworld/php/
product: devplatform1.0
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P
SME1: Sam C

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->
# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: PHP Hello World Sample
[See the Helion 1.1 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/helloworld/php/)

This very simple PHP web app displays the text "Hello World!". This is a demonstration of the minimum requirements to build a functional application. Use this sample to ensure that you have set up your environment for deployment to Helion Development Platform.

##Prerequisites
If you are missing any of these items, you must [install them](/helion/devplatform/appdev/).

- Access to an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) [Cluster](/als/v1/admin/cluster/)
- The  [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/als/v1/user/client/) must be installed.
- Access to the web-based [Helion Management Console](/als/v1/user/console/).

##Download the Application Files
[Click here to access the code repository.](https://github.com/HelionDevPlatform/helion-hello-world-php)

### About the Application Files
To create a CloudFoundry&#8482; app in PHP, the only mandatory files are the *index.php* and *manifest.yml* files. 

*Manifest.yml* is a configuration file used to specify settings that would otherwise be specified by a command-line tool. For PHP, only the **name** and **buildpack** fields are required. The **buildpack** field is a URL for the buildpack that supports the necessary language and/or framework.

The *composer.json* file is completely optional; however, certain buildpacks may issue a warning if the file is not present.

##Deploy the Application
**Note**: Application Lifecycle Service clusters that require an upstream HTTP proxy to access the internet will need to be [made aware of the proxy](/als/v1/admin/server/configuration/#staging-cache-app-http-proxy). The sample applications require access to the Internet in order to download dependent packages. 

The Helion client to deploy your app to Helion Development Platform.  If you are using Eclipse, you can optionally [use the plugin](/helion/devplatform/eclipse/) to deploy.

1.	Open the [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/als/v1/user/reference/client-ref/)
3.	Ensure that you are targeting your desired environment.  <br /> If you are not, execute
	
		helion target https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.example.com2.	


1. Ensure that you are logged in to your desired environment.  <br />If you are not, execute
	
		helion login
	
4.	If you are not already there, `cd` to the root directory of the sample.
5.	Deploy the application by using the command:
	
		helion push 


1. Accept any default values that you may be prompted for. <br />**Note**: By default, ALS Clusters are configured with two domains (private and public).  In some situations, the Helion CLI may prompt you to select a target domain.  If prompted, select the public domain from the given list (i.e. *<app-name>.xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.xip.io*)


##Key Code Snippets
This simple PHP script prints "Hello World".
	
	package org.hp.samples;
	<?php
	
	echo "\n Hello World \n";
	
	?>

The *manifest.yml* file is the configuration information used by ALS to set up the environment. The **buildpack** element here informs ALS on the correct buildpack to use for PHP, which ensures the correct tools and runtimes are installed in the application environment.

	---
	applications:
	- name: hello-world-php  
	  buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/php-buildpack.git

##Run the Application
1.	Open the Helion Management Console. <br /> The Management Console is the web-based administrative interface that can be reached by typing the ALS endpoint URL into a browser window.
2.	Click **Applications**.
3.	If the file push was successful, you should see **hello-world-php** in the list of available applications.
4.	The status of the application should be **Started**. click the name of the application to launch it.
5.	In the upper right-hand corner, click **View App**.
6.	You should see a simple text message: **Hello World!**

##Key Learnings
1. ALS requires configuration information to create an environment for your app, including buildpack information for PHP. Configuration information is contained in the *manifest.yml* file.
2. You can deploy your app using either the Helion CLI or the Eclipse [plugin](/helion/devplatform/eclipse/).

[Exit Samples](/helion/devplatform/appdev) | [Previous Sample](/helion/devplatform/workbook/messaging/php/) | [Next Sample](/helion/devplatform/workbook/database/php/)
