---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Node Hello World Sample"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/helloworld/node/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P
SME1: Sam C

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->
# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Node Hello World Sample
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/workbook/helloworld/node/)

This very simple Node.js web app displays the text "Hello World!". This sample is a demonstration of the minimum requirements to build a functional application. Use this sample to ensure that you have set up your environment for deployment to Helion Development Platform.

##Prerequisites
If you are missing any of these items, you must [install them](/helion/devplatform/1.1/appdev/).

- Access to an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) [Cluster](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/cluster/)
- The  [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/client/) must be installed.
- Access to the web-based [Helion Management Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/).

##Download the Application Files
[Click here to access the code repository.](https://github.com/HelionDevPlatform/helion-hello-world-node)

###About the Application Files
To create a CloudFoundry&#8482; app in Node.js, the only mandatory files are:

* The main .js file
* manifest.yml
* package.json
* Procfile 

*Manifest.yml* is a configuration file used to specify settings that would otherwise be specified by a command-line tool. 

The *package.json* file is your standard metadata file. **Name** and **version** are the only required fields. 

The *Procfile* tells the Helion Development Platform how to run your Node.js application. An extremely simple one is included with this sample.

##Deploy the Application
**Note**: Application Lifecycle Service clusters that require an upstream HTTP proxy to access the internet will need to be [made aware of the proxy](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/configuration/#staging-cache-app-http-proxy). The sample applications require access to the Internet in order to download dependent packages.

Use the Helion client to deploy your app to Helion Development Platform.  If you have Eclipse installed, you have the option to use the [plugin](/helion/devplatform/1.1/eclipse/).

1.	Open the [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/)
3.	Ensure that you are targeting your desired environment.  <br /> If you are not, execute
	
		helion target https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.example.com2.	


1. Ensure that you are logged in to your desired environment.  <br />If you are not, execute
	
		helion login
	
4.	If you are not already there, `cd` to the root directory of the sample.

5.	Deploy the application by using the command: 

		helion push 



1. Accept any default values that you may be prompted for. <br />**Note**: By default, ALS Clusters are configured with two domains (private and public).  In some situations, the Helion CLI may prompt you to select a target domain.  If prompted, select the public domain from the given list (i.e. *&#60;app-name>.xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.xip.io*)

##Key Code Snippets

This simple Servlet prints "Hello World".

	// Load the http module 
	var http = require('http');
	
	// The  HTTP server will respond with Hello World to all requests.
	var server = http.createServer(function (request, response) {
	  response.writeHead(200, {"Content-Type": "text/plain"});
	  response.end("\n Hello World \n");
	});
	
	// Listen to the port being used by this app. The call to process.env.PORT will
	// return the port that has been assigned to the app from the Helion Development
	// Platform.
	var port = process.env.PORT || 8888;
	server.listen(port);
	
	// Print to the terminal
	console.log("Server listening to port: " + port);

The *package.json* file is used by ALS during deployment. This is an extremely basic manifest file. 
Note that **name** is always required while other fields are optional.

		{
		  "name": "hello-world-node",
		  "version": "1.0.0",
		  "description" : "A 'Hello World' app demonstrating Node.js running on the Helion Development Platform.",
		  "repository" : {"type": "git", "url": "git://notyetpublished"}
		}

 
##Run the Application
1.	Open the Helion Management Console. <br /> The Management Console is the web-based administrative interface that can be reached by typing the ALS endpoint URL into a browser window.
2.	Click **Applications**.
3.	If the file push was successful, you should see **hello-world-node** in the list of available applications.
4.	The status of the application should be **Started**.  Click the name of the application to launch it.
5.	In the upper right-hand corner, click **View App**.
6.	You should see a simple text message: **Hello World**

##Key Learnings

- You interact with and deploy your app using the [ALS command line client](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/) or the web-based [ALS Management Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/).

- ALS requires configuration information to create an environment for your app. Configuration information is contained in the *manifest.yml* file.

[Exit Samples](/helion/devplatform/1.1/appdev) | [Previous Sample](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/messaging/node/) | [Next Sample](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/database/node/)
