---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Java Hello World Sample"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/helloworld/java/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P
SME1: Sam C

---

<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Java Hello World Sample
This Servlet-based Java web app displays the text "Hello World!". This is a demonstration of the minimum requirements to build a functional application. Use this sample to ensure that you have set up your environment for deployment to Helion Development Platform.

##Prerequisites
If you are missing any of these items, you must [install them](/helion/devplatform/1.1/appdev/). 

- Access to an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) [Cluster](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/cluster/)
- The  [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/client/) must be installed.
- Access to the web-based [Helion Management Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/).

###JDK
You must have the Java Development Kit (JDK) installed before you can install the other prerequisites.

- For the Mac/UNIX environment, the JDK can be installed with the following command:

    	sudo apt-get install default-jdk

- For the PC environment, the simplest way to install the JDK is to visit the [JDK installation page](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and run the appropriate installer for your chosen platform.

###Maven 
[Maven](http://maven.apache.org/ "Maven") must be installed. 

- The simplest way to install Maven on a Mac/UNIX environment is:

		sudo apt-get install maven 

- The simplest way to install Maven on a PC environment is to [download the latest version of Maven](http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi) and then follow the [installation directions](http://maven.apache.org/guides/getting-started/windows-prerequisites.html).

##Download the Application Files
[Click here to access the code repository.](https://github.com/HelionDevPlatform/helion-hello-world-java) 
 
##Build the Application
In the root directory of the sample package, execute the following command:

	mvn clean package

This builds the application with Maven. It will create the *hello-world-java-1.0.war* file within the target directory. 

##Deploy the Application
**Note**: Application Lifecycle Service clusters that require an upstream HTTP proxy to access the internet will need to be [made aware of the proxy](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/configuration/#staging-cache-app-http-proxy). The sample applications require access to the Internet in order to download dependent packages.

Use the Helion client to deploy your app to Helion Development Platform.  If you have Eclipse installed, you have the option to [use the plugin](/helion/devplatform/1.1/eclipse/) to deploy.

1.	Open the [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/)
3.	Ensure that you are targeting your desired environment.  <br /> If you are not, execute
	
		helion target https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.example.com2	


1. Ensure that you are logged in to your desired environment.  <br />If you are not, execute
	
		helion login
		
4.	If you are not already there, `cd` to the root directory of the sample.
5.	Deploy the application by using the command: 
	
		helion push
	
6.	Accept any default values that you may be prompted for. <br />**Note**: By default ALS clusters are configured with two domains (private and public). In some situations the Helion CLI may prompt you to select a target domain. If prompted, select the public domain from the given list (i.e. *&#60;app-name>.xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.xip.io*)

##Key Code Snippets

This simple Servlet prints "Hello World".

    package org.hp.samples;
	
	import java.io.IOException;
	import java.io.PrintWriter;
	
	import javax.servlet.ServletException;
	import javax.servlet.http.HttpServlet;
	import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletRequest;
	import javax.servlet.http.HttpServletResponse;
	
	public class HelloServlet extends HttpServlet {
	
		private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;
	
		protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
			response.setContentType("text/plain");
			response.setStatus(200);
			PrintWriter writer = response.getWriter();
			writer.println("Hello World");
			writer.close();
		}
	}

The *POM.xml* file contains the configuration information generated by Maven and used by ALS to set up the environment.

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	        xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/maven-v4_0_0.xsd">
	    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
	    <groupId>org.hp.samples</groupId>
	    <artifactId>hello-world-java</artifactId>
	    <version>1.0</version>
	    <packaging>war</packaging>
	    <dependencies>
	        <dependency>
	            <groupId>javax.servlet</groupId>
	            <artifactId>servlet-api</artifactId>
	            <version>2.5</version>
	            <scope>provided</scope>
	        </dependency>
	    </dependencies>
	</project>

## Run the Application

1. Open the Helion Management Console. This is the web-based administrative interface that can be reached by typing the ALS endpoint URL into a browser window.
2. Click **Applications**.
3. If the file push was successful, you should see **hello-world-java** in the list of available applications.
4. The status of the application should be **Started**. Click the name of the application to launch it.
5. In the upper right-hand corner, click **View App**.
6. You should see a simple text message: **Hello World!** 

##Key Learnings
1.	ALS requires configuration information to create an environment for your app. Configuration information is contained in the *pom.xml* file. Tools like Maven can generate this configuration file for you.
2.	You can deploy your app using either the Helion CLI or the [Eclipse plugin](/helion/devplatform/1.1/eclipse/).

[Exit Samples](/helion/devplatform/1.1/appdev) | [Previous Sample](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/messaging/java/) | [Next Sample](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/database/java/)
