<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1382">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Managing Project Quotas</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/MiscTasks/carrier-grade.dashboard.default.quotas.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/quotas/--></p>
<p>You can change the default values that appear for quotas when <xref href="../Projects/carrier-grade.dashboard.projects.create.dita" >creating a new project</xref>.</p>
<p>To set default values:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Defaults</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit any of the following values:</p>

<ul>
<li><b>Injected File Content Bytes</b> - Content bytes allowed for each injected file.</li>
<li><b>Metadata Items</b> - Metadata items allowed for each instance.</li>
<li><b>RAM (MB)</b> - RAM megabytes allowed for each instance.</li>
<li><b>Keypairs</b> - Number of keypairs.</li>
<li><b>Length of Injected File Path</b> - The length of the path to injected files.</li>
<li><b>Instances</b> - Instances allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Injected Files</b> - Injected files allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>VCPUs</b> - Instance cores allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Total Size of Volumes and Snapshots</b> - Enter the maximum total size for all volumes and
            snapshots allowed for the project.</li>
<li><b>Snapshots</b> - Volume snapshots allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Volumes</b> - Volumes allowed for each project.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Defaults</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1382"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
