<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1418">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Managing LDAP User Accounts</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/MiscTasks/carrier-grade-admin-ldap-manage.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/ldap/manage/--></p>
<p>Although the scope of operations for the LDAP user accounts is local, that is, they operate on the target host exclusively, management of these accounts operates at the cluster level. This means that operations such as password change, and addition or removal of users, are applied to the entire cluster. For example, a password change executed while logged into controller-0, is effective immediately on all other hosts in the cluster.</p>
<p>Centralized management is implemented using two LDAP servers, one running on each controller node. LDAP server synchronization is automatic using the native LDAP content synchronization protocol.
A set of LDAP commands is available to operate on LDAP user accounts. 
The commands are installed in the <codeph>/usr/local/sbin</codeph> directory, and are available to any user account in the sudoers list. Included commands are:</p>
<ul>
<li>lsldap</li>
<li>ldapadduser</li>
<li>ldapdeleteuser</li>
</ul>
<p>Use the command option <codeph>--help</codeph> on any command to display a brief help message, as illustrated below.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>ldapadduser --help
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1418"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
