<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2065">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Cold Migrate an Instance</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.cold.migrate.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/instances/migrate/cold/--></p>
<p>Users can migrate or live migrate an instance as needed.</p>
<p>Migration enables an administrator to move a virtual-machine instance from one compute host to another. This feature is useful when a compute host requires maintenance. Migration can also be useful to redistribute the load when many VM instances are running on a specific physical machine.</p>
<p>Cold migration causes the instance to be shut down for a period of time to be moved to another hypervisor. In this case, the instance recognizes that it was rebooted.</p>
<ul>
<li>Live migration. Almost no downtime. Useful when the instances must be kept running during the migration. For more information, see <xref href="../Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.live.migrate.dita" >Live Migration of Virtual Machines</xref>.</li>
</ul>
<section id="migrate-an-instance-on-an-hlinux-server"> <title>Migrate an instance on an hLinux server</title>
<p>Instances on hLinux servers can be migrated</p>
<p>To migrate an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Instances</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Instances</b> screen, for the instance you want to migrate, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Migrate Instance</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Confirm Migrate Instance</b> screen, select <b>Migrate Instance</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="migrate-an-instance-on-a-wind-river-linux-server"> <title>Migrate an instance on a Wind River Linux server</title>
<p>Instances on Wind River Linux servers can be migrated</p>
<p>To migrate an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Instances</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Instances</b> screen, for the instance you want to migrate, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Cold Migrate Instance</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Confirm Cold Migrate Instance</b> screen, select <b>Cold Migrate Instance</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The migrated instance is listed.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2065"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
