<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3185">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Allocating and Associating Floating IP Addresses</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.managing.instances.ipaddress.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/instances/ipaddresses/--></p>
<p>Floating IP addresses allow external access to the instances in your network.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3185/associate">Associate a floating IP address</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3185/allocate">Allocate floating IP addresses</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3185/disassociate">Disassociate a floating IP address</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> You must have an external network configured for the project. Without an external network, a floating IP address is not available. When you create an external network, a pool of IP addresses is created, which you can associate to the instances on a network.</p>
<section id="associate"> <title>Associate a floating IP address to a network.</title>
<p>To assign a floating IP address to an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Instances</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the network you want to associate the IP address, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Associate Floating IP</b>.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> Instances that are in error cannot be assigned a floating IP address.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Manage Floating IP Associations</b> screen, select an address from the <b>IP Address</b>. This list contains the currently allocated IP addresses.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> If the list is empty, you will need to <xref type="section" href="#topic3185/allocate">allocate an IP address</xref> before you can associate an address to a network. Click <b>Cancel</b> and see</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Port to be Associated</b> list, select the instance and port that you want to associate with the floating IP address.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Associate</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="allocate"> <title>Allocate a floating IP address</title>
<p>Before associating a floating IP address to an instance, the floating IP address must be allocated for use.</p>
<p>To allocate a floating IP address:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Instances</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the network you want to associate the IP address, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Associate Floating IP</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Manage Floating IP Associations</b> screen, click the <b>+</b> button next to the <b>IP Address</b> list.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Allocate Floating IP</b> screen, select the appropriate external network in the <b>Pool</b> list. Select the network to which the instance connects.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Allocate IP</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>A floating IP address is added to the <b>IP Address</b> list in the <b>Manage Floating IP Associations</b> screen.</p>
<p>The floating address can be <xref type="section" href="#topic3185/associate">associated</xref> to an instance.</p>
</section>
<section id="disassociate"> <title>Disassociate a floating IP address from a network.</title>
<p>To remove a floating IP address from an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Instances</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the network you want to disassociate the IP address, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Disassociate Floating IP</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Disassociate Floating IP</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The floating IP address is removed and the instance is no longer accessible from the external network.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3185"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
