<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1796">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Configuring SNMP Trap Destinations</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/SystemAlarms/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-alarms-snmp-traps.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/alarms/snmp/traps/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>SNMP trap destinations are hosts configured in the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade to receive unsolicited SNMP notifications.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Destination hosts are specified by IP address, or by host name if it can be properly resolved by the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade.</p>
<p>Notifications are sent to the hosts using a designated community string so that they can be validated.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Configure IP address 10.10.10.1 to receive SNMP notifications using the community string commstr1.</p>

<p>system snmp-trapdest-add -c commstr1 --ip_address 10.10.10.1</p>

<p>The following are attributes associated with the new community string:</p>

<ul>
<li>uuid -The UUID associated with the trap destination object.</li>
<li>ip_address - The trap destination IP address.</li>
<li>community - The community string value to be associated with the notifications.</li>
<li>type - snmpv2c_trap, the only supported message type for SNMP traps.</li>
<li>port -  The destination UDP port that SNMP notifications are sent to.</li>
<li>transport - The transport protocol used to send notifications.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>List defined trap destinations.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>system snmp-trapdest-list
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Query access details of a specific trap destination.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>system snmp-trapdest-show 10.10.10.1
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Disable the sending of SNMP notifications to a specific IP address.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>$ system snmp-trapdest-delete 10.10.10.1
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1796"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
