---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/services/data-services/
product: devplatform2.0
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Application Lifecycle Service Data Services "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Application Lifecycle Service Data Services {#index-0}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/user/services/data-services/)

The Application Lifecycle Service includes a number of data services which can be bound to the
applications you deploy. These include several databases (PostgreSQL, MySQL, Redis), the RabbitMQ messaging service, a [persistent file system](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/services/filesystem/#persistent-file-system) service and [Memcached](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/services/memcached/#memcached).

For detailed information on using an **external** database system, see [Using External Database Services](#using-external-databases).

- [Configuring Application Lifecycle Service Data Services](#configuring-helion-data-services)
	- [Defining Services in the *manifest.yml* File (before push)](#using-manifest-yml)
	- [Creating Services During Push](#using-helion-push)
	- [Creating and Binding Services After Push](#creating-and-binding-services)
- [Using Database Service Environment Variables](#using-database-services)
	- [VCAP\_SERVICES](#vcap-services)
	- [Connecting to External Databases](#using-external-databases)
	- [Directly Accessing Database Services](#accessing-database-services)
		- [Using *dbshell*](#using-dbshell)
		- [Using Tunnel](#using-tunnel)
- [Pre-populating a database while pushing an app](#pre-populating-a-database-while-pushing-an-app)
- [Backing up a MySQL database](#backing-up-a-mysql-database)
	- [Using *helion run*](#using-helion-run)
	- [Using *helion tunnel*](#using-helion-tunnel)
- [Importing a MySQL database](#importing-a-mysql-database)
	- [Using *dbshell*](#sqldbshell)
	- [Using *helion tunnel*](#sqltunnel)
- [Changing Database Versions](#database-version-changes)
- [Using SQLite](#sqlite "Permalink to this headline")


##Configuring Application Lifecycle Service Data Services {#configuring-helion-data-services}

The data services your application requires need to be specified when your app is pushed to the Application Lifecycle Service server. This can be done in a
number of ways:

1.  Specifying the required services in the *manifest.yml* file.
2.  Configuring services during the push process.
3.  Configuring services manually.

###Defining Services in the *manifest.yml* File {#using-manifest-yml}

The manifest.yml file can define a lot of application-specific details
that tell the Application Lifecycle Service Client what to do without having to enter them
when you run `helion push`. For complete details
for using the *manifest.yml* file, please see [Configuration With
*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/).

A simple example telling the Application Lifecycle Service Client to request a MySQL database named
**cirrusdb**:

    name: cirrus
    mem: 256M
    instances: 2
    services:
        cirrusdb: mysql

Possible service types are:

-   [filesystem](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-filesystem)
-   [memcached](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-memcached)
-   [mysql](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-mysql)
-   [postgresql](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-postgresql)
-   [rabbitmq](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-RabbitMQ)
-   [redis](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-Redis)

To access the database services after they've been created, see [Accessing Database Services](#accessing-database-services).

### Creating Services During Push {#using-helion-push}

In order to ensure that the correct services are configured each time the app is pushed, list the services in the *manifest.yml* file.

However, if you do not specify any services in the *manifest.yml* file, you will be prompted to create them during the push process. 

To set up a database service, for example, enter "y" when asked and follow the prompts:

    helion push

    ...
    Would you like to bind any services to 'cirrus' ?  [yN]: y
    The following system services are available
    1. mongodb
    2. mysql
    3. postgresql
    4. redis
    5. <None of the above>
    Please select one you wish to provision: 2
    Specify the name of the service [mysql-18cab]: cirrusdb
    Creating Service: OK
    Binding Service: OK
    ...

### Creating and Binding Services After Push {#creating-and-binding-services}

It is possible to create services and bind them to an app after they are pushed to the Application Lifecycle Service server. 

There are two ways to do this:

1. Combine all parameters into a single command.

		helion create-service \<service\> \&#60;name\> \<app\>**

	**service** is the *type* of service you want to create (mysql, redis, postgresql). <br />
**name** is the name you want to assign to the service.<br />
**app** is the name of the application the service is to be bound to.

	    helion create-service mysql ordersdb myapp
	    Creating Service: OK
	    Binding Service: OK
	    Stopping Application [myapp]: OK
	    Staging Application [myapp]: OK
	    Starting Application [myapp]: OK
	
	    helion apps
	
	    +-------------+---+-------------+---------------------------+----------------+
	    | Application | # | Health      | URLS                      | Services       |
	    +-------------+---+-------------+---------------------------+----------------+
	    | myapp       | 1 | RUNNING     | myapp.helion-xxxx.local | ordersdb       |
	    +-------------+---+-------------+---------------------------+----------------+

2. Pass all parameters in separate commands.
	
	These two commands ([helion create-service](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-create-service) and [helion bind-service](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-bind-service)) do the same thing as if all three parameters were passed using `create-service`, but provide additional flexibility to create and configure the service before binding it to an app.

		create-service \<service\> \&#60;name\>

		bind-service \<servicename\> \<app\>

	**service** is the *type* of service to be created (mysql, redis, postgresql, mongodb). <br />
	**name** is the name you want to assign to the service.<br />
	**servicename** is the name assigned to this service during the `create-service` command. <br />
	**app** is the name of the application the service is to be bound to.<br />

        helion create-service mysql customerdb
        Creating Service: OK

        helion bind-service customerdb myapp
        Binding Service: OK
        Stopping Application [myapp]: OK
        Staging Application [myapp]: OK
        Starting Application [myapp]: OK

        $ helion apps

        +-------------+---+---------+---------------------------+-----------------------+
        | Application | # | Health  | URLS                      | Services              |
        +-------------+---+---------+---------------------------+-----------------------+
        | myapp       | 1 | RUNNING | myapp.helion-xxxx.local | ordersdb, customerdb  |
        +-------------+---+---------+---------------------------+-----------------------+

For further information on the commands for managing services, or to remotely check the settings and credentials of any ALS service, please see
the [ALS Service Management](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement) command reference.

##Using Database Service Environment Variables {#using-database-services}

When you bind a database service to an application, [environment variables](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/environment/#environment-variables) containing that service's host, port, and credentials are added to the application container. You can use these environment variables in your code to connect to the service, rather than having to discover and then hard-code in such details.

Examples of how to parse and use these variables can be found in the [Language-Specific Deployment](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/#language-specific-deployment) section.

### DATABASE\_URL<a name="database-url"></a>

**If only one relational database service** is bound to an application,
use the DATABASE\_URL environment variable. It contains the connection
string for the bound database in the following format:

    protocol://username:password@host:port/database_name

For example, a DATABASE\_URL for a PostgreSQL service would look like
this:

    postgres://u65b0afbc8f8f4a1192b73e8d0eb38a24:p9eb83c11c59c4bcabfa475a4871e9242@192.168.69.117:5432/da17e48ddc82848499cb387bc65f5d4f9

The **protocol** portion specifies the type of database. For example:

-   mysql://
-   postgresql://

The **database name** portion of the URL is the *actual* database name
(e.g. "da17e48ddc82848499cb387bc65f5d4f9"), not the user-specific
service name set during deployment/service creation (e.g. "myapp-db").

### Database-Specific URLs {#database-specific-urls}

**If a non-relational data service type** is bound to the application,
use the corresponding named environment variable:

-   REDIS\_URL
-   RABBITMQ\_URL

**If more than one relational database service type** is bound to the
application (e.g. MySQL and PostgreSQL), the DATABASE\_URL variable will
not be set but the following database-specific variables will:

-   MYSQL\_URL
-   POSTGRESQL\_URL
-   ORACLE\_URL (with Oracle Database add-on)

These have the same format as DATABASE\_URL.

**If more than one database of the same type** is bound to the
application (e.g. two MongoDB services), none of the URL formatted
environment variables will be available. Use
VCAP\_SERVICES instead.

### VCAP\_SERVICES {#vcap-services}

Contains a JSON string listing the credentials for all bound services,
grouped by service type. VCAP\_SERVICES variables use non-versioned service names, and the version number remains in the **label** key.

For example:

	{
	        "mysql": [
	                {
	                        "name": "mydb",
	                        "label": "mysql-5.5",
	                        "plan": "free",
	                        "tags": [
	                                "mysql",
	                                "mysql-5.5",
	                                "relational"
	                        ],
	                        "credentials": {
	                                "name": "d0a60c0be931f4982bbef153f993237bc",
	                                "hostname": "192.168.0.112",
	                                "host": "192.168.0.112",
	                                "port": 3306,
	                                "user": "u93Mm8XmGXQ9R",
	                                "username": "u93Mm8XmGXQ9R",
	                                "password": "p8LwNeQXMrNzi"
	                        }
	                }
	        ]
	}



This variable contains some additional meta-information and can be used for compatibility with Cloud Foundry.

###Connecting External Databases {#using-external-databases}
Applications running as ALS apps can use external databases by:
 
- hard-coding the host and credentials in the code (not recommended), 
- setting a URL or credential array in an environment variable 
- setting the connection details in a User-Provided Service Instance 
 
	**Note**: Apps which write database connection details during staging rather than taking them from environment variables at run time ("hard-coded applications") **must** be completely re-staged to pick up the new service location and credentials. Restarting the application will not automatically force restaging.

Container security prevents apps from connecting to arbitrary servers and ports on the local subnet for security reasons. To allow your application to connect to a database server you must either: 

- create a User Provided Service Instance with a *host* and a *port* value for the database server 
- add the IP address of the database server to the list of allowed hosts (requires Admin privileges) 

## Directly Accessing Database Services {#accessing-database-services}

You may need to connect to a database service directly for purposes of initial database setup, modifying fields, running queries, or doing backups. These operations can be done using the [helion dbshell](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/management/#command-dbshell) (preferred) or [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) commands.

### Via *dbshell* {#using-dbshell}

The [helion dbshell](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/management/#command-dbshell) command creates an SSH tunnel to database services. To open an interactive shell to a service:

    helion dbshell <application_name> <service_name>

The command automatically opens the appropriate database client for
the database you're connecting to, provided that client is installed on
the local system.

It is also available inside application containers, providing a quick
way to import data from dump files or set up schemas. For example,
to import data from file in an application directory, you could use a
hook in *manifest.yml* such as:

    hooks:
      post-staging:
        - dbshell < setup/sample-data.sql

### Using Tunnel {#using-tunnel}

The [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) command is an alternative
method for accessing database services. The command creates a small Ruby
application which proxies database requests over HTTP. This is the
standard method for database access in Cloud Foundry, but tends to be
slower than using *dbshell*.

To create or use a tunnel, execute the command:

    helion tunnel <servicename>

Depending on the service you are connecting to, a list of options will
be provided. Here is an example of a connection to a MySQL service:

    helion tunnel mydb

    Getting tunnel url: OK, at https://tunnel-xxxxx.helion-xxxx.local
    Getting tunnel connection info: OK

    Service connection info:
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | Key      | Value                             |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | username | uT9efVVFCk                        |
    | password | pHFitpIU1z                        |
    | name     | d5eb2468f70ef4997b1514da1972      |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+

    1. none
    2. mysql
    3. mysqldump
    Which client would you like to start?

You now have all the information you need to access the data. Note the
**Service connection info** box that displays your username,
password, and the actual database name.

For simple command line access, select option **2. mysql**.

To get a dump of the entire database, select option **3. mysqldump**.
You will be prompted to enter a path to where the dump will be saved to.

If you want to connect with a database viewer, or run multiple commands
from the command line, or pass in SQL files, select option **1. none**.
This will set up a port for you to connect with locally.

    1. none
    2. mysql
    3. mysqldump

    Which client would you like to start? **none**

    Starting tunnel to remarks on port 10000.
    Open another shell to run command-line clients or
    use a UI tool to connect using the displayed information.
    Press Ctrl-C to exit...

Open a new command line window. You can connect to the MySQL database
directly with:

    mysql --protocol=TCP --host=localhost --port=10000 --user=<user> --password=<password> &#60;name>

  For example:

    mysql --protocol=TCP --host=localhost --port=10000 --user=uT9efVVFCk --password=pHFitpIU1z d5eb2468f70ef4997b1514da1972

To import an SQL file, call the same command and pipe in the file:

    mysql --protocol=TCP --host=localhost --port=10000 --user=<user> --password=<pass> &#60;name> < mydatabase.sql

To pull a dump of all databases:

    mysqldump -A --protocol=TCP --port=10000 --host=localhost --user=<user> --password=<pass>

## Pre-populating a database while pushing an app {#pre-populating-a-database-while-pushing-an-app}

When a database needs to be populated with data the first time it is
run, it can be done by the use of a hook during the staging process.
This can be accomplished in two steps.

First, create a script file in the app's root directory that uses the
same data source variables from VCAP\_SERVICES as the ones being
used in the app. This file will open a connection to the database,
create tables, and insert records as necessary, as in this Perl example:

    use strict;
    use warnings;

    use DBI;
    use DBD::mysql;
    use JSON "decode_json";

    my $services = decode_json($ENV{VCAP_SERVICES});
    my $credentials = $services->{mydb};

    my $dbh = DBI->connect("DBI:mysql:database=$credentials->{name};hostname=$credentials->{hostname};port=$credentials->{port};",
                           $credentials->{'user'}, $credentials->{'password'})
        or die "Unable to connect: $DBI::errstr\n";

    my $sql_init =
        'CREATE TABLE customers (
                        id INT(11) AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
                        customername TEXT,
                        created DATETIME
                );
        ';
    $dbh->do($sql_init);

    $sql_init =
                'INSERT INTO customers
                        (customername, created)
                VALUES
                        ("John Doe", now()),
                        ("Sarah Smith", now());
        ';
    $dbh->do($sql_init);

    $dbh->disconnect;

Next, modify your *manifest.yml* file to make use of the
`post-staging` hook which will execute a command to
run the script:

    name: customertracker
    services:
      mysql: customerdb
    hooks:
      post-staging: perl preload.pl

With those changes, the data from your script will be executed after the
staging process is complete but before the app starts to run.

## Backing up a MySQL database {#backing-up-a-mysql-database}

### Using helion run {#using-helion-run}

To export a MySQL database, use the [helion run](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/management/#command-run) command to remotely execute the dbexport tool:

	helion run [application-name] dbexport service-name > dumpfile.sql

This will run a `dbexport` of the named data service
remotely and direct the output to a local file. If run from a directory
containing the manifest.yml file, the application name may be omitted.

### Using helion tunnel {#using-helion-tunnel}

This method of database backup is provided for compatibility with Cloud Foundry. It tends to be slower than using `helion run ...`.

To back up a MySQL database, use the [tunnel](#sqltunnel)
command to make a connection to the server and export the data using
`mysqldump`.

Use the [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) command to access the service (in
this example a MySQL database named `customerdb`):

    helion tunnel customerdb

    Password: ********
    Getting tunnel url: OK, at https://tunnel-xxxxx.helion-xxxx.local
    Getting tunnel connection info: OK

    Service connection info:
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | Key      | Value                             |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | username | uT9efVVFCk                        |
    | password | pHFitpIU1z                        |
    | name     | d5eb2468f70ef4997b1514da1972      |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+

    1. none
    2. mysql
    3. mysqldump
    Which client would you like to start?

Select option **3. mysqldump**. You will be prompted to enter a path to
where the dump will be saved.

See the [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) command documentation for other
ways of accessing a MySQL database. See [Importing a MySQL database](#importing-a-mysql-database) for details on importing a
file created by mysqldump into an existing MySQL database service.

## Importing a MySQL database {#importing-a-mysql-database}

### Using dbshell {#sqldbshell}

To import a MySQL database, use the `helion dbshell` command:

    helion dbshell [application name] [service name] < dumpfile.sql

The [helion dbshell](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/management/#command-dbshell) command redirects the contents of a local database dump file to the
appropriate database client running in the application instance (i.e.
equivalent to `helion run dbshell ...`). If run
from a directory containing the *manifest.yml* file, the application and
service names may be omitted.

### Using helion tunnel {#sqltunnel}
This method of database import is provided for compatibility with Cloud Foundry. It tends to be slower than using `helion run ...`.

To import data from a *mysqldump* file into an existing
MySQL database service, use the [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) command:

    helion tunnel <servicename>

    Password: ********
    Getting tunnel url: OK, at https://tunnel-xxxxx.helion-xxxx.local
    Getting tunnel connection info: OK

    Service connection info:
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | Key      | Value                             |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+
    | username | uT9efVVFCk                        |
    | password | pHFitpIU1z                        |
    | name     | d5eb2468f70ef4997b1514da1972      |
    +----------+-----------------------------------+

    1. none
    2. mysql
    3. mysqldump
    Which client would you like to start?

Choose option **1. none** which will allow for command line access to
the database. A MySQL service is configured on Port 10000, so open a new
terminal window to enter commands through.

Then, import an SQL file with the following command:

    mysql --protocol=TCP --host=localhost --port=10000 --user=<user> --password=<pass> &#60;name> < mydatabase.sql

See the [helion tunnel](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/servicemanagement/#command-tunnel) command documentation for other
ways of accessing a MySQL database. See [Backing up a MySQL database](#backing-up-a-mysql-database) for details on how to create
a `mysqldump` backup that can then be imported into
another database service.

## Changing Database Versions {#database-version-changes}

The VCAP\_SERVICES environment variable in Application Lifecycle Service does not include
version numbers in the service name string. This can cause problems when
migrating applications from Cloud Foundry v1 systems which reference
versioned database names in VCAP\_SERVICES.

There are two application-level fixes for this issue:

### Method 1 {#method-1}

Update references to VCAP\_SERVICES in the application code to exclude
version numbers. For example:

    MySQL:         'mysql-5.x' -> 'mysql'
    PostgreSQL:    'postgresql-x.x' -> 'postgresql'
    Redis:         'redis-2.x' -> 'redis'

### Method 2 {#method-2}

Update the application code to use the DATABASE\_URL environment
variable. See the following language-specific documentation:

-   [PHP Data Services](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/languages/php/#php-data-services)


The following changes to sample applications show this modification:

-   PERL:
    <https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bugzilla/commit/414804f3c02dab5104f048c013b8a3127e5268b2>
-   PYTHON:
    <https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/django-gtd/commit/fdc7361086c5a1f9d2b10ee5e7af918e9f60b999>
-   PHP:
    <https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/owncloud-core/commit/3bd87948f48910f27fa1e059e863bcf312cce5f3>

##SQLite {#sqlite}

Applications can use an [SQLite database](http://www.sqlite.org/) as an alternative to Application Lifecycle Service database services. However, since the filesystem of an application container is ephemeral -- destroyed when an application is stopped, restarted, or updated -- **always** store the SQLite file on a [Persistent File System](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/services/filesystem/#persistent-file-system) mount point to avoid losing data.
