<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1726">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Managing project quotas</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Projects/carrier-grade.dashboard.projects.quotas.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/projects/quotas/--></p>
<p>Quotas are operational limits enforced on each project.</p>
<p>To prevent system capacities from being exhausted without notification, you can set up quotas.</p>
<p>For example, the number of gigabytes allowed per project can be controlled to make sure that a single project does not consume all of the disk space.</p>
<p>Default values are set on the <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/MiscTasks/carrier-grade.dashboard.default.quotas.dita" >Default screen</xref>.</p>
<section id="quotamod"> <title>Modify a quotas</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Identity</b> panel, then the <b>Projects</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the project you want to modify, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Modify Quotas</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Edit Project</b> screen, click the <b>Quota</b> tab (should be active).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit any of the following fields:</p>

<ul>
<li><b>Metadata Items</b> - Metadata items allowed for each instance.</li>
<li><b>VCPUs</b> - Instance cores allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Instances</b> - Instances allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Injected Files</b> - Injected files allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Injected File Content Bytes</b> - Content bytes allowed for each injected file.</li>
<li><b>Volumes</b> - Volumes allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Volume Snapshots</b> - Volume snapshots allowed for each project.</li>
<li><b>Total Size of Volumes and Snapshots</b> - Enter the maximum total size for all volumes and
              snapshots allowed for the project.</li>
<li><b>RAM (MB)</b> - RAM megabytes allowed for each instance.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Save</b>.</p>

<p>A message is displayed on successful modification.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1726"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
