<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1357">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating and Deleting a Volume Types</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Volumes/1.1commercial.dashboard.volume.admin.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/volume/admin/--></p>
<p>A volume type defines the characteristics of a volume. It usually maps to a set of capabilities
      of the storage back-end driver that is used for this volume. For example:
        <i>Backup</i>,<i>SSD</i>, and so forth.</p>
<section id="create-a-volume-type"> <title>Create a volume type</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b>
          tab. </li>
<li>In the <b>Volume Types</b> section of the table, click <b>Create Volume Type</b>.</li>
<li>In the <b>Create Volume Type</b> dialog box, enter a name for the volume type.</li>
<li>Click <b>Create Volume Type</b> to confirm.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="delete-a-volume-type"> <title>Delete a volume type</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b>
          tab. </li>
<li>In the <b>Volume Types</b> section of the table, select the volume type or types that you want
          to delete.</li>
<li>Click <b>Delete Volume Types</b>.</li>
<li>In the <b>Confirm Delete Volume Types</b> dialog box, click <b>Delete Volume Types</b>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
