---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/ruby/
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Developing In Ruby"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Developing In Ruby

Whether you're deploying an application to the HP Helion Development Platform, a
Cloud Foundry based Platform as a Service (PaaS), or writing applications that take
advantage of HP Helion OpenStack&#174; to manage infrastructure or software services, tools
to enable successful development are available in Ruby.

## Application Lifecycle Services {#application-lifecycle-services}

Application Lifecycle Services (ALS), a cloud foundry based Platform as a Service,
provides a means to execute ruby applications on a managed platform. Deploying applications to the platform is as simple as adding configuration to a YAML configuration file and using a console application to push the application to ALS.
At its simplest form the configuration file, *manifest.yml*, at the root of a project would look like:

	name: ruby-web-app
	framework:
    	type: ruby20</pre>

This will tell ALS to have a Ruby web application.
To create a worker non-http application set the web process to null (~) and specify
the command to run. For example,

	name: ruby-app
	framework:
	  type: rails3
	  runtime: ruby19
	command: ruby worker.rb
	processes:
	  web: ~

Management of the deployed application and its services happens through a web application or a console application.
To learn more see:

* [Working with applications in Ruby](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/ruby/)
* The [manifest.yml](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/) reference.

## HP Helion SDK {#hp-helion-sdk}

Ruby applications can communicate directly with the [Helion APIs](/publiccloud/api/) through a REST client or use the SDK. The SDK is designed to have a simple well documented API to simplify working with the services.
To understand how it works, here is an example of writing and reading from object storage:

	def credentials_hash
	  {
	    :provider => :openstack,
	    :openstack_auth_url => ENV['OS_AUTH_URL'],
	    :openstack_username => ENV['OS_USER'],
	    :openstack_api_key => ENV['OS_API_KEY'],
	    :openstack_tenant =>  ENV['OS_TENANT'] ,
	    :openstack_region => ENV['OS_REGION']
	  }
	end
	
	storage = Fog::Storage.new(credentials_hash)
	
	#list directories
	storage.directories
	
	#create a directory
	storage.directories.create(:key => "Example")
	
	#create an object
	dir = storage.directories.get("Example")
	dir.files.create(:key => "sample.txt", :body => File.open("/path/to/sample.txt"))
	
	#get the same object out
	dir = conn.directories.get("Example")
	file = dir.files.get("sample.txt")
	file.key   # => sample.txt
	file.content_type # => text/plain


**Note**: See [Buildpacks](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/buildpack/#buildpacks) for an alternative way to deploy Ruby on Rails applications.

## Using Ruby 2.0 {#using-ruby-2-0}

The *manifest.yml* file must specify the Ruby runtime version and Rails as the
framework type:

    framework:
      runtime: ruby20

Default Ruby version is Ruby 1.9

## Known Issues {#known-issues}

-   Rmagick gem currently not supported.

-   PostgreSQL Gem (pg) version must be pinned to 0.12.2 (if used):

        gem 'pg', '0.12.2'

-   Must specify Rake Gem immediately before the line loading rails.
    This happens because when Rails loads, it finds version 0.9.2 of
    Rake, and that becomes the only version of Rake in the process.
    Later code wants version 0.9.2.2, and fails:

        gem 'rake', '0.9.2.2'
        gem 'rails'

-   For Ruby 1.9, Cloud Foundry requires a tweak to the jquery-rails gem.

    	gem 'cloudfoundry-jquery-rails'

### Ruby on Rails 3.1+ {#ruby-on-rails-3-1}

To get the asset pipeline working on Application Lifecycle Service, precompile your assets in
your development environment, which compiles them into public/assets:

    bundle exec rake assets:precompile

### Gems and Libraries {#gems-and-libraries}

A *Gemfile* must be included in your app that lists all required gems.
Run:

    bundle install
    bundle package

any time you modify the *Gemfile* and prior to pushing an app to
Application Lifecycle Service.

If VCAP sees a Gemfile.lock in the application, it will ensure the
needed gems are packaged, and set the BUNDLE\_PATH environment variable
to point at them.

###Unsupported *Gemfile* features

1.  git urls or branch dependencies
2.  gem :path =\> "some/path"
3.  platform-conditional gems

### Database Services {#database-services}

Cloud Foundry supports database auto-reconfiguration for Rails
applications.

### Worker Applications {#worker-applications}

Non-HTTP apps that run as an Application Lifecycle Service application under the control of
the Health Manager.

To deploy worker applications, you need to use the
[*command*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#command) key and set the
[*processes: web*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#web)
key to Null ("\~").

### Example {#example}

    name: ruby-app
    framework:
      type: rails3
      runtime: ruby19
    command: ruby worker.rb
    processes:
      web: ~

## General Guidelines {#general-guidelines}

### App/Web Servers {#app-web-servers}

For the best performance, [using the Thin Ruby webserver](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ruby#webserver) is recommended.
Include `gem 'thin'` in your *Gemfile*.


### Bundler {#bundler}

You need bundler and rails installed locally. This can be done
via:

    sudo gem install rails bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc

### Running rake commands {#running-rake-commands}

Generally, `bundle exec` must be used when running any commands that are installed through Gemfile/bundler.

To run `rake stats`, for instance, use the `helion run` command:

    helion run *appname* bundle exec rake stats

See the [ALS Command Reference](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-ref-client) for details on the use of `helion run`.

## References {#references}

-   [Auto-Reconfiguration Part
    I](http://blog.cloudfoundry.com/2012/03/12/using-cloud-foundry-services-with-ruby-part-1-auto-reconfiguration/):
    Cloud Foundry Blog.
-   [Auto-Reconfiguration Part
    II](http://blog.cloudfoundry.com/2012/03/15/using-cloud-foundry-services-with-ruby-part-2-run-time-support-for-ruby-applications):
    Cloud Foundry Blog.
-   [Working with Ruby, Rails and Sinatra: Things to
    know](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/buildpacks/ruby/ruby-tips.html):
    Cloud Foundry Documentation.
