---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Carrier Grade (Alpha): Creating Server Groups"
permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/groups/create/
product: carrier-grade

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/carrier/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/carrier/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/carrier/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a></p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Carrier Grade (Alpha): Creating Server Groups

Server Groups is a mechanism to group virtual machines to which a common set of scheduling attributes is applied.

<hr>
**Note:** This feature applies to the Wind River Linux servers only.
<hr>

## Using the Horizon dashboard

To create a server group using the Horizon dashboard:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard](/helion/openstack/carrier/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Project** or **Admin** dashboard, then the **System** panel, then the **Server Group** link.

	The routers for the selected project appear. 

3. Click **Create New Server Group**.

4. On the **Create New Server Group** screen:

	* Select a project for the new service group should be associated with. 
	* Specify a name for the new server group.
	* Select a scheduling policy:
		* affinity - When this option is selected, new instances launched as part of this server group are scheduled to run on the same compute node.
		* anti-affinity - When this option is selected, new instances launched as part of this server group are scheduled to run on different compute nodes. 
		
			For example, you can use the anti-affinity option when you have two virtual machines that run in 1:1 HA protection mode, and you want them to be protected against hardware failures.
	* Select whether to require that when the policy in place, affinity, or anti-affinity, the policy is enforced whenever possible, on a best-effort basis.

		If for any reason the policy cannot be enforced, then the deployment of the new instance proceeds using the regular scheduling.
		
		When cleared, the policy in place must be executable for the new instance to be scheduled. Launching of a new virtual machine fails if there are no resources to comply with the selected policy.

	* Specify the the maximum number of instances that can co-exist as part of this server group.
	
5. Click **Create New Server Group**.

The new service group is displayed.

Once a server group is defined, you can add virtual machines to it at launch time. This is done by selecting the desired
server group from the tab Server Group on the launch window.

## Uisng the CLI

To create or delete a server group using the CLI, use the following commands:

	nova server-group-create --policy <name> \ --metadata best_effort=<true/false> --metadata group_size=<number> 

	nova server-group-delete 63752c24


	**Examples**

	nova server-group-create --policy affinity \ --metadata best_effort=true --metadata group_size=2

	nova server-group-delete 63752c24-...


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
