<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ybt_mhb_kt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Changing min-part-time in Swift</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>The following procedure enables you to change the <codeph>min-part-time</codeph>
      attribute.</p>
    <p>
      <simpletable>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>Description</b>
          </stentry>
          <stentry>In the cloud model ring-specifications, the <codeph>min-part-time</codeph>
            attribute specifies how many hours you must wait between ring rebuilds. If you change
            this attribute, this is not reflected in the ring files and it only applies at the time
            the rings are created. </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
          <stentry>You can change the values as follows:<ol id="ol_qzp_zhb_kt">
              <li>Log into the first server running the swift-proxy service.</li>
              <li>Go to the <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/region-&lt;region-name></codeph>
                directory, where &lt;region-name> is the <codeph>region-name</codeph> field in your
                cloud model (for example, region1 in most example files). </li>
              <li>Search for files with a <codeph>.builder</codeph> extension. </li>
              <li> Run the <codeph>swift-ring-builder</codeph> command against each builder file.
                For example, to change the value to 16 hours for the account builder file, use the
                following:
                <codeblock>sudo swift-ring-builder account.builder set_min_part_hours 16</codeblock></li>
              <li> You should also update the <codeph>ring-specifications</codeph> (usually in the
                  <codeph>data/swift/rings.yml</codeph> file) to contain the same value for the
                min-part-time.
                <!--This has no effect in the current release but will have an effect in a future release.--></li>
            </ol></stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </p>
    <p>For more details about the <codeph>min-part-power</codeph> attribute, see <xref
        href="ring_specifications.dita#ring-specification"/>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
