<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_vyp_cft_4t">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Applying Input Model Changes to Existing
    Rings</title>
  <body>
    <p>This section describes a general approach of making changes to the existing rings. This
      applies to actions such as adding and removing a server and replacing and upgrading the disk
      drive(s). There are a number of phases that must be performed when adding and removing a
      server and replacing and upgrading the disk drive(s), as shown below:</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_sqz_jft_4t">
        <li><b>Changing the Input Model Phase</b><p>Do the following:<ol id="ol_jv2_zf5_pt">
              <li>If not already done, set the weight-step attribute. (See <xref
                  href="preparing_ring_changes.dita#topic_t1y_vjs_4t/setting-weight-step-attribute"
                  >Setting the weight-step attribute</xref>). </li>
              <li>Edit the Input Model as appropriate. You must edit the YAML file as per your
                requirement. For more information, refer <xref
                  href="../input_model.dita#input_model"/></li>
              <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../using_git.dita">local repo</xref>,
                as follows:<codeblock>git add -A
git commit -m "commit message"</codeblock></li>
              <li>Run the configuration
                processor:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Run the following command to create a deployment
                directory.<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Run the following
                playbook.<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost _swift-validate-input-model.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Validate that the number of drives proposed to be added or deleted or weight
                change is correct. Fix any errors in your input model. At this stage, no changes
                have been made to rings. </li>
            </ol></p></li>
        <li><b>First phase of ring rebalance:</b><p>Do the following:<ol id="ol_f5m_dg5_pt">
              <li>Apply the input model changes to the rings, rebalance the rings and deploy them to
                all Swift nodes by running the following
                playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-deploy.yml </codeblock></li>
              <li>Wait until replication has finished or min-part-time has elapsed (which ever is
                longer). For more information see <xref
                  href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita#topic_ohx_j1t_4t"/></li>
            </ol></p></li>
        <li><b>Weight change phase of ring rebalance:</b><p>At this stage, no changes are being made
            to the input model. However, when you set the weight-step attribute, the rings that was
            rebuilt in the previous rebalance phase have weights that are different than their
            target/final value. You gradually move to the target/final weight by rebalancing a
            number of times as described in this page. For more information about the weight-step
            attribute see <xref href="preparing_ring_changes.dita#topic_t1y_vjs_4t">Swift preparing
              ring changes</xref>.</p><p>Do the following:<ol id="ol_vyc_gg5_pt">
              <li>Rebalance the rings by running the following
                playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost _swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Run the
                reconfigure.<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Wait until replication has finished or min-part-time has elapsed (which ever is
                longer). For more information see <xref
                  href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita#topic_ohx_j1t_4t"/></li>
              <li>Run the following command
                <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost _swift-validate-input-model.yml</codeblock>and
                examine the report.<p>An example of the output after executing the above command. In
                  the example  <b>no</b> weight changes are
                  proposed.<codeblock>TASK: [swiftlm-ring-supervisor | validate-input-model | Print report] ********* 
ok: [padawan-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt] => {
    "var": {
        "report.stdout_lines": [
            "Need to add 0 devices", 
            "Need to remove 0 devices", 
            "<b>Need to set weight on 0 devices</b>"
        ]
    }
}</codeblock></p></li>
              <li>When there are no proposed weight changes, you proceed the final phase.</li>
              <li>If there are proposed weight changes repeat this phase again. </li>
            </ol></p></li>
        <li><b>Final rebalance phase:</b><p>The final rebalance phase moves all replicas to their
            final destination.<ol id="ol_nlx_3g5_pt">
              <li>Rebalance the rings by running the following playbook.
                  <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost _swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml | tee /tmp/rebalance.log</codeblock><note>The
                  output is saved for later examination.</note></li>
              <li>Examine the output from the previous step. If the output for all ring is similar
                to the following, the rebalance had no effect. That is, the rings are  balanced and
                no further changes are needed. In addition, the ring files were not changed so you
                do not need to deploy them to the Swift
                  nodes.<codeblock>"Running: swift-ring-builder /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/region-region1/account.builder rebalance 999", 
      "NOTE: No partitions could be reassigned.", 
      "Either none need to be or none can be due to min_part_hours [16]."</codeblock><p>The
                  text <b>No partitions could be reassigned</b> indicates that no further rebalances
                  are necessary. If this is true for all the rings, you have completed the final
                    phase.<note>You must have allowed enough time to elapse since the last
                    rebalance. As mentioned in the above example, <codeph>min_part_hours
                      [16]</codeph> means that you must wait at least 16 hours since the last
                    rebalance. If not, you should wait until enough time has elapsed and repeat this
                    phase.</note></p></li>
              <li>Run the
                reconfigure.<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
              <li>Wait until replication has finished or min-part-time has elapsed (which ever is
                longer). For more information see <xref
                  href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita#topic_ohx_j1t_4t"/></li>
              <li>Repeat the above steps until the ring is rebalanced.</li>
            </ol></p></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section id="system-cahnge-existing-rings">
      <title>System change that change existing rings</title>
      <p>There are many system changes ranging from adding servers to replacing drives that might
        require some ring rebuild and rebalance actions.</p>
      <p><!--Note: This section provides an overview of these changes and a summary of the required actions. More detailed procedures are provided elsewhere.--></p>
      <p>
        <simpletable id="simpletable_mtc_yb1_kt">
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>Actions</b></stentry>
            <stentry><b>Process</b></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Adding Servers(s)</stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>
                <ul id="ul_tn1_vj5_pt">
                  <li>If not already done, set the weight change attribute as described in <xref
                      href="preparing_ring_changes.dita#topic_t1y_vjs_4t">Swift preparing ring
                      changes</xref>.</li>
                  <li>Add servers in phases<ul id="ul_dcb_wbd_st">
                      <li>This reduces the impact of the changes on your system.</li>
                      <li>If your rings use Swift zones, ensure you remove the same number of
                        servers to each zone at each phase.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                </ul>
                <ul id="ul_hs5_yj5_pt">
                  <li>To add a server, follow the procedure described in <xref
                      href="add_new_node.dita#topic_j2p_d1r_4t">Adding a New
                    Node/Server</xref>.</li>
                  <li>Follow the instructions mentioned in <xref href="#topic_vyp_cft_4t"
                      format="dita"/> to incrementally change the weights and perform the final
                    rebalance.</li>
                </ul>
              </p>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Removing Server(s)</stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>In HP Helion OpenStack 2.0, when you remove servers from the input model, the disk
                drives are removed from the ring – the weight is not gradually reduced using the
                weight-step attribute. <ul id="ul_dwn_nk5_pt">
                  <li>Remove servers in phases<ul id="ul_wqy_nk5_pt">
                      <li>This reduces the impact of the changes on your system.</li>
                      <li>
                        <p>If your rings use Swift zones, ensure you remove the same number of
                          servers to each zone at each phase.</p>
                      </li>
                    </ul></li>
                </ul></p>
              <ul id="ul_wdk_rk5_pt">
                <li>To remove a server, follow the procedure described in <xref
                    href="removing_node.dita#topic_ndn_4bg_pt"> Removing a Swift Node</xref>. </li>
                <li>Follow the instructions mentioned in <xref href="#topic_vyp_cft_4t"
                    format="dita"/> to perform the final rebalance.</li>
              </ul>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Replacing Disk Drive(s)</stentry>
            <stentry><p>When a drive fails, replace it as soon as possible. Do not attempt to remove
                it from the ring – this creates to operator overhead. Swift will continue to store
                the correct number of replicas by "handing off" objects to other drives instead of
                the failed drive.</p>If the disk drives are of the same size as the original when
              the drive is replaced, no ring changes are required. You can confirm this by running
              the <codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph> playbook. It should report that
              no weight changes are needed. <p>For a single drive replacement, even if the drive is
                significantly larger than the original drives then you do not need to rebalance the
                ring (however, the extra space on the drive will not be used).</p></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Upgrading Disk Drives</stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>If the drives are different size (for example, you are upgrading your system), you
                can proceed as follows:</p>
              <ul id="ul_smv_pfz_4t">
                <li>If not already done, set the weight-step attribute</li>
                <li>Replace drives in phases<ul id="ul_gvy_5fz_4t">
                    <li>Avoid replacing too many drives at once.</li>
                    <li>If your rings use swift zones, upgrade a number of drives in the same zone
                      at the same time – not drives in several zones.</li>
                    <li>It is also safer to upgrade one server instead of drives in several servers
                      at the same time.</li>
                    <li>Remember that the final size of all Swift zones must be the same, so you may
                      need to replace a small number of drives in one zone, then a small number in
                      second zone, then return to the first zone and replace more drives, etc. </li>
                  </ul></li>
                <li>Use the process described in <xref href="#topic_vyp_cft_4t" format="dita"
                  />.</li>
              </ul>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
