<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_avw_22b_kt">
  <title>Interpreting _swift-validate-input-model.yml Errors</title>
  <body>
    <p>When you execute the <codeph>_swift-validate-input-model.yml</codeph> playbook it can be hard
      to pick out the errors being reported. If so, you view the error messages as follows:<ol
        id="ol_szd_tht_dt">
        <li>Log onto the first node in the system that is running the swift-proxy-server process.
            <note> You must run the <codeph>_swift-validate-input-model.yml</codeph> playbook as
            mentioned in step <b>1</b> in <b> </b><xref
              href="../bare_installation_kvm.dita#install_kvm/validate_swift">Validate Object
              Storage</xref> or run the <codeph>hlm-deploy.yml</codeph> playbook as described in
            step <b>2 c</b> in the <xref
              href="../bare_installation_kvm.dita#install_kvm/run-config-processor">Install
              Guide</xref> otherwise the files needed to run the
              <codeph>swiftlm-ring-supervisor</codeph> will not be in place on the node.</note></li>
        <li>Execute the following
            command:<codeblock>sudo swiftlm-ring-supervisor --make-delta --report </codeblock><p>
            The command will report any errors or problems (see List of errors) with the input
            model. It also prints a summary of the ring create actions that are planned (i.e., that
            will occur) for the deploy phase of the process.</p></li>
      </ol></p>
    <section><b>List of errors</b></section>
    <p>The following example provides an error message, description, and the resolution.<note>To
        resolve an error, you must first modify the cloud model and re-run the configuration
        processor as described in <xref
          href="../using_git.dita#topic_u3v_1yz_ct/updating-configuration-including-default-config"
          >Updating any configuration, including the default configuration</xref> and continue with
        the deploy.</note></p>
    <p>
      <ol id="ol_vnh_g2b_kt">
        <li><b>Example Message - Model Missmatch: Cannot find drive /dev/sdt on padawan-ccp-c1-m2
            (192.168.245.3))</b><simpletable id="simpletable_crn_x2j_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>The disk model used for node <b>padawan-ccp-c1-m2</b> has drive
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> listed in the devices list of a device-group where Swift
                is the consumer. However, the <codeph>dev/sdt</codeph> device does not exist on that
                node.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>If a drive or controller is failed on a node, the operating system does not
                see the drive and hence the corresponding block device may not exist. Sometimes this
                is transitory and a reboot may resolve the problem. The problem may not be with
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph>, but with another drive. For example, if
                  <codeph>/dev/sds</codeph> is failed, when you boot the node, the drive that you
                expect to be called <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> is actually called
                  <codeph>/dev/sds</codeph>. <p>Alternatively, there may not be enough drives
                  installed in the server. You can add drives. Another option is to remove
                    <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> from the appropriate disk model. However, this removes
                  the drive for all servers using the disk model .</p></stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Model Missmatch: Cannot find drive /dev/sdd2 on padawan-ccp-c1-m2
            (192.168.245.3)</b><simpletable id="simpletable_wz4_jgj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>The disk model used for node<b> padawan-ccp-c1-m2</b> has drive
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> listed in the devices list of a device-group where Swift
                is the consumer. However, the partition number (2) has been specified in the model.
                This is not supported – only specify the block device name (for example
                  <codeph>/dev/sdd</codeph>), not partition names in disk models.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Remove the partition number from the disk model.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Cannot find IP address of padawan-ccp-c1-m3-swift for ring: account
            host: padawan-ccp-c1-m3-mgmt</b><simpletable id="simpletable_j3n_lfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b></stentry>
              <stentry>The service (in this example, swift-account) is running on the node
                  <b>padawan-ccp-c1-m3</b>. However, this node does not have a connection to the
                network designated for the swift-account service (i.e., the SWIFT
                network).</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Check the input model for which networks are configured for each node
                type.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li>
          <b>Example Message - Ring: object-2 has specified replication_policy and
            erasure_coding_policy. Only one may be specified. </b><simpletable
            id="simpletable_jxv_lfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>Only one of replication-policy or erasure-coding-policy may be used in a
                ring-specification.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Remove one of the policy types.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Ring: object-3 is missing a policy type (replication-policy or
            erasure-coding-policy) </b><simpletable id="simpletable_e3b_mfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>There is no replication-policy or erasure-coding-policy section in the
                ring-specifications for the object-0 ring.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Add a policy type to the input model file. </stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
