<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pcv_fy4_nt">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Gathering Swift Monasca Metrics</title>
  <body>
    <p>The <b>swiftlm-scan</b> program is the mechanism used to gather metrics for the Monasca
      system. These metrics are used to derive alarms. See <xref
        href="../operations/alarms.dita#alarmdefinitions/objectstorage">alarm definitions</xref> for
      a list of alarms that can be generated from this data.</p>
    <p>You execute the <b>swiftlm-scan</b> command directly to view the metrics. Log on to the Swift
      node as the root user. The following example shows a snippet of the output.
        <codeblock>$ sudo swiftlm-scan --pretty
. . .
  {
    "dimensions": {
      "device": "sdc", 
      "hostname": "padawan-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt", 
      "service": "object-storage"
    }, 
    "metric": "swiftlm.swift.drive_audit", 
    "timestamp": 1442248083, 
    "value": 0, 
    "value_meta": {
      "msg": "No errors found on device: sdc"
    }
  }, 
. . .</codeblock><note>Use
          the<b> --pretty</b> option. This makes the JSON file easier to read.</note></p>
    <p>The fields are as follows:</p>
    <p>
      <simpletable>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>metric</b></stentry>
          <stentry>This is the name of the metric.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>dimensions</b></stentry>
          <stentry>This provides information about the source or location of the metric. The
            dimensions differ depending on the metric in question. The following dimensions are used
              by<b> swiftlm-scan</b>:<ul id="ul_vdp_km2_jt">
              <li><b>service</b> : This is always "object-storage".</li>
              <li><b>component</b> : This identifies the component. For example,
                "swift-object-server" indicates that the metric is about the swift-object-server
                process.</li>
              <li><b>hostname</b> : This is the name of the node the metric relates to. This is not
                necessarily the name of the current node.</li>
              <li><b>url</b> : If the metric is associated with a URL, this is the URL.</li>
              <li><b>port</b> : If the metric relates to connectivity to a node, this is the port
                used.</li>
              <li><b>device</b> : This is the block device a metric relates to.</li>
            </ul></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>value</b></stentry>
          <stentry>This is the value of the metric. For many metrics, this is simply the value of
            the metric. But for other metrics, the value indicates a status. If the
              <b>value_meta</b> contains a <b>msg</b> field, the value is a status. The following
            status values are used:<ul id="ul_rjy_hm2_jt">
              <li>0 - no error</li>
              <li>1 - warning</li>
              <li>2 - failure</li>
            </ul></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><b>value_meta</b></stentry>
          <stentry>This contains additional information. The <b>msg</b> field is the most useful of
            this information. </stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </p>
    <section>
      <title>Optional Parameters</title>
      <p>You can focus on specific sets of metrics by using one of the following optional
        parameters: </p>
      <p>
        <simpletable>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--replication</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Checks replication and health status.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--file-ownership</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Check that Swift owns its relevant files and directories.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--drive-audit</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Checks for logged events about corrupted sectors (unrecoverable read errors) on
              drives.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--connectivity</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Checks connectivity to various servers used by the Swift system, including:<ul
                id="ul_owk_pp2_jt">
                <li>Checks this node can connect to all memcachd servers</li>
                <li>Checks that this node can connect to the Keystone service (only applicable if
                  this is a proxy server node)</li>
                <li>Checks that this node can ping all other Swift nodes</li>
              </ul></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--swift-services</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Check that the relevant Swift processes are running.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--network-interface</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Check NIC speed and reports statistics for each interface.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--check-mounts</b></stentry>
            <stentry>Checks that the node has correctly mounted drives used by Swift.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry><b>--hpssacli</b></stentry>
            <stentry>If this server uses a Smart Array Controller, this checks the operation of the
              controller and disk drives.</stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
