<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="object-storage">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Object Storage Overview</title>
  <body><!--Needs Edit, fnf edits 10/22, a few edits remain for Binamra-->
    <section><b>What is the Object Storage (Swift)?</b><p>The HPE Helion OpenStack Object Storage
        leverages Swift from <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm>. Swift uses software-defined storage
        (SDS) layered on top of industry-standard servers using native storage devices. Swift
        presents an object paradigm, using an underlying set of disk drives. The disk drives are
        managed by a data structure called a "ring." And you can store, retrieve, and delete objects
        in containers using RESTful APIs.</p>HP Helion OpenStack Object Storage provides a
      highly-available, resilient, and scalable storage pool for unstructured data. It has a
      highly-durable architecture, with no single point of failure. In addition, this version of HP
      Helion OpenStack introduces the concept of cloud models, where the user can modify the cloud
      input model to provide the configuration required for their environment.</section>
    <section><b>Object Storage (Swift) Services</b><p>A Swift system is comprised of a number of
        services: </p><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Swift-proxy provides the API for all requests to the Swift system.</li>
          <li>Account and container services provide storage management of the accounts and
            containers.</li>
          <li>Object services provide storage management for object storage.</li>
        </ul>
      </p><p>These services can be co-located in a number of ways. The following general pattern
        exists in the example cloud models distributed in HP Helion OpenStack:</p><p>
        <ul>
          <li>The swift-proxy, account, container, and object services run on the same (PACO) node
            type in the control plane. This is used for smaller clouds or where Swift is a minor
            element in a larger cloud.</li>
          <li>The swift-proxy, account, and container services run on one (PAC) node type in a
            cluster in a control plane and the object services run on another (OBJ) node type in a
            resource pool. This is used for in larger clouds or where a larger Swift system is in
            use or planned.</li>
        </ul>
      </p><p>Each of these node types can be scaled independently to meet workload and redundancy
        requirements. The storage service can be scaled up as necessary. It can also be scaled
        horizontally to handle an increased number of simultaneous connections and a larger number
        of objects.</p></section>
    <p>Swift is configured through a number of YAML files in the HP Helion implementation of the
      OpenStack Object Storage (Swift) service. For more details on the configuration of the YAML
      files, see <xref href="input_cloud_model.dita#modify-input-model"/>.</p>
    <!--<section><title>Installation</title></section><section><p>Swift is installed automatically, if your environment meet the basic hardware requirement required for installing Swift. Please refer to <xref href="../supportedconfigs.dita#topic_ckw_kbc_ws">Supported Configuration</xref> for hardware requirement. </p></section>-->
    <p>You can implement the input model and perform the following Swift tasks: <ul
        id="ul_vsp_33r_qt">
        <li><xref href="input_cloud_model.dita#modify-input-model">Modifying Example Configurations
            for Object Storage</xref><ul id="ul_fc4_j3r_qt">
            <li><xref href="allocate_pac.dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="allocating_server.dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="creating_roles_swift_nodes.dita#topic_uh2_td1_kt"/></li>
            <li><xref href="allocating_network.dita#topic_pcj_hzv_dt">Allocating Network
                Traffic</xref></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul><ul id="ul_e34_l3r_qt">
        <li><xref href="allocating_disk_drives.dita#allocating-disk-drives">Allocating Disk
            Drives</xref><ul id="ul_zjl_t3r_qt">
            <li><xref href="label_on_partition.dita#verify-partition-label">How to Verify if a
                Partition is Labelled</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="filesystem_label.dita#verify-the-filesystem-label">How to Verify if a
                File System is Labelled</xref></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul><ul id="ul_ep5_bjr_qt">
        <li><xref href="creating_pac_cluster.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="creating_object_server_resource.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="ring_specifications.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="storage_policies.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="ring_management.dita"/><ul id="ul_yd4_g44_tt">
            <li><xref href="rebalanced_explained.dita">Rebalance Explained</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="setting_up_weight_attributes_ring_changes.dita">Using the Weight-Step
                Attributes to Prepare for Ring Changes</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="playbook_linked_ring_management.dita">Swift Playbooks Linked to Ring
                Management</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita">Determining When it is Safe to
                Rebalance and Deploy a New Ring</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="input_model_change_existing_rings.dita">Applying Input Model Changes to
                Existing Rings</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="add_new_storage_policy.dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="how_to_change_min_part_time.dita#topic_ybt_mhb_kt"/></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li><xref href="modify_swift_service_config_files.dita#topic_rdf_hkp_rt"/></li>
      </ul></p>
    <ul id="ul_f1l_xjr_qt">
      <li>Swift Operations<ul id="ul_dzk_njr_qt">
          <li><xref href="add_new_node.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="replacing_swift_node.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="removing_node.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="replacing_drives_swift_node.dita"/></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><xref href="check_objectstorage_operation.dita"/><ul id="ul_b1x_clr_qt">
          <li><xref href="validating_swift_recon.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="lm_scan_metering.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="utility.dita"/></li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
    <ul id="ul_knx_1js_qt">
      <li><xref href="troubleshooting.dita"/><ul id="ul_lh5_fjs_qt">
          <li><xref href="deploy_fails_with_msdos_disks.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="examine_details_planned_ring_changes_prior_deploy.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="interpreting_swift_validate_input_model.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="first_proxy_server.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="label_on_partition.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="filesystem_label.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="recovering_builder_file.dita"/></li>
          <li><xref href="restart_deploy_from_scratch.dita"/></li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
