<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jmm_cnz_4t">
  <title>Swift Playbooks Linked to Ring Management</title>
  <body>
    <p>The following table describes how playbooks relate to ring management.</p>
    <simpletable id="simpletable_mtc_yb1_kt">
      <strow>
        <stentry><b>Playbook</b></stentry>
        <stentry><b>Description</b></stentry>
        <stentry><b>Notes</b></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>There are two steps in this playbook:<ul id="ul_smp_ygy_4t">
            <li>Make delta<p>It processes the input model and compares against the existing rings.
                After comparison, it produces a list of differences between the input model and the
                existing rings. This is called the ring delta. The ring delta covers drives being
                added, drives being removed, weight changes, and replica count changes.</p></li>
          </ul><ul id="ul_xbm_2hy_4t">
            <li>Rebalance<p>The ring delta is then converted into a series of commands (such as
                "add") to the swift-ring-builder program. Finally, the "rebalance" command is issued
                to the swift-ring-builder program.</p></li>
          </ul></stentry>
        <stentry>This playbook performs its actions on the first node running the swift-proxy
          service (refer to <xref href="first_proxy_server.dita"/>). However, it also scans all
          Swift nodes to find the size of disk drives.<p>If there are no changes in the ring delta,
            the "rebalance" command is still executed to rebalance the rings. If min-part-time has
            not yet elapsed or if no partitions need to be moved, new rings are not
          written.</p></stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><codeph>_swift-validate-input-model.yml</codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>There are two steps in this playbook:<ul id="ul_qc2_b3y_4t">
            <li>Make delta<p>This is the same step as described above.</p></li>
          </ul><ul id="ul_ht2_f3y_4t">
            <li>Report<p>This prints a summary of the proposed changes that will be made to the
                rings (i.e. what would happen if you rebalanced).</p></li>
          </ul><p>The playbook reports any issues or problems it finds with the input
            model.</p><p>This playbook can be useful to confirm that there are no errors in the
            input model. It also allows you to check that when you change the input model, that the
            proposed ring changes are as you expect. For example, if you have added a server to the
            input model, but this playbook reports that no drives are being added, you should
            determine the cause.</p></stentry>
        <stentry/>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><codeph>swift-deploy.yml</codeph></stentry>
        <stentry><codeph>swift-deploy.yml</codeph> is responsible for installing software and
          configuring the Swift on nodes. As part of installing and configuring, it runs the
            <codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph> and
            <codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph>  playbooks.</stentry>
        <stentry>This playbook is included in the <codeph>hlm-deploy.yml</codeph> and
            <codeph>site.yml</codeph> playbooks, so if you run either of those playbooks, the
            <codeph>swift-deploy.yml</codeph> playbook is also run.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry><codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p><codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph> takes rings that the
              <codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph> playbook has changed and copies those
            rings to all Swift nodes.</p>
        </stentry>
        <stentry>Every time that you directly use the
            <codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph> playbook, you must copy these rings to
          the system using the <codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook. If you forget and
          run <codeph>_swift-make-delta-rebalance.yml</codeph> twice, the process may move two
          replicates of some partitions at the same time.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </body>
</topic>
