<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_izw_1mz_4t">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Rebalancing Object Storage Rings</title>
  <body>
    <p>The ring building process tries to distribute data evenly among the available disk drives.
      The data is stored in partitions. (For more information, see <xref
        href="ring_specifications.dita#ring-specification"/>.) If you, for example, double the
      number of disk drives in a ring, you need to move 50 percent of the partitions to the new
      drives so that all drives contain the same number of partitions (and hence same amount of
      data). But it is not possible to move the partitions in a single step. It can take minutes to
      hours to move partitions from the original drives to their new drives (this process is called
      the replication process). If you move all partitions at once, there would be a period where
      Swift would expect to find partitions on the new drives, but the data had not yet replicated
      there so that Swift could not return the data to the user. Therefore, Swift will not be able
      to find all the data in the middle of replication because some data has finished replication
      while other bits of data are still in the old locations and have not yet been moved. Instead,
      move only one replica at a time. If the replica count is 3, you could first move 16.6 percent
      of the partitions and then wait until all data has replicated. Then move a further 16.6
      percent of partitions. Wait again and then finally move the remaining 16.6 percent of
      partitions. For any given object, only one of the replicas is moved at a time.</p>
    <p><!--If you move all partitions at once, there is a possibility that the data is not replicated on the new drives. Hence, Swift won't be able to find the partition of the new drive and won't be able to return the data to the user. Therefore, you must move one replica at a time. If the replica count is 3, you can first move 16.6% of the partitions and wait till all data are replicated. Then move a further 16.6% of partitions and wait again for all the data to replicate and finally move the remaining 16.6% of partitions. For any given object, only one of the replicas is moved at a time.--></p>
    <section><sectiondiv><b>Reason to move partition gradually</b></sectiondiv><p>Due to the
        following factors, you must move the partition gradually: </p><ul id="ul_jrz_q3s_4t">
        <li>Not all devices are of the same size. HPE Helion OpenStack 2.0 automatically assigns
          different weights to drives so that smaller drives store fewer partitions than larger
          drives.</li>
        <li>The process attempts to keep replicas of the same partition in different servers.</li>
        <li>
          <p>Making a large change in one step (for example, doubling the number of drives in the
            ring), would result in a lot of network traffic due to the replication process and the
            system performance suffers. There are two ways to mitigate this:</p>
          <ul id="ul_msz_tjs_4t">
            <li>Add servers in smaller groups</li>
            <li>Set the weight-step attribute in the ring specification. (For more information,
                see<xref href="setting_up_weight_attributes_ring_changes.dita#topic_t1y_vjs_4t"/>
              .)</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul></section>
  </body>
</topic>
