<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_am4_mjv_pt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Replacing Drives in a Swift Node</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>There are two different classes of drives in a Swift node that needs to be replaced; the
      operating system disk drive (generally <b>/dev/sda</b>) and storage disk drives. There are
      different procedures for the replacement of each class of drive to bring the node back to
      normal.</p>
    <section>
      <title><b>To Replace the Operating System Disk Drive</b></title>
      <p>After the operating system disk drive is replaced, the node must be reimaged.<ol
          id="ol_ewb_vjv_pt">
          <li>Log onto the lifecycle manager.</li>
          <li>Using Ansible, reimage the
              node:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&lt;server id></codeblock><p>In
              the example below <b>swobj2</b> server is
              reimaged:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=swobj2</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>Review the <codeph>cloudConfig.yml</codeph> and
              <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> files to get the host prefix (for example,
            helion) and the control plane name (for example, cp1). This gives you the hostname of
            the node. Configure the operating
              system:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>In
              the following example, for <b>swobj2</b>, the hostname is
              <b>helion-cp1-swobj0002</b>:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml -limit helion-cp1-swobj0002*</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>If this is the first server running the swift-proxy service, restore the Swift Ring
            Builder files to the <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder_dir</codeph> directory. (For more
            information and instructions, see <xref href="first_proxy_server.dita#topic_rtc_s3t_mt"/>
            <xref href="recovering_builder_file.dita#topic_gbz_13t_mt"/>.)</li>
          <li>Configure services on the node using the <codeph>site.yml</codeph> playbook. If you
            have used an encryption password when running the configuration processor include the
              <codeph>--ask-vault-pass</codeph>
              argument.<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>For
              example:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit helion-cp1-swobj0002*</codeblock></p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><b>To Replace a Storage Disk Drive</b></title>
      <p>After a storage drive is replaced, there is no need to reimage the server. Instead, run the
          <codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook.<ol id="ol_kqj_hkv_pt">
          <li>Log onto the lifecycle manager.</li>
          <li>Run the following
              commands:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>In
              following example, the server used is
              <b>swobj2</b>:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml --limit helion-cp1-swobj0002-mgmt </codeblock></p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
