<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_r21_rpv_pt">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Replacing a Swift Node</title>
  <body>
    <p><note type="warning">If it applies to the server, do not skip step 11. If you do, the system
        will overwrite the existing rings with new rings. This will not cause data loss, but,
        potentially, will move most objects in your system to new locations and may make data
        unavailable until the replication process has completed. </note>To replace a Swift node in a
      system, do the following:<ol id="ol_mbn_5pv_pt">
        <li>Log onto the deployer/lifecycle-manager node.</li>
        <li>Update the cloud model (<codeph>data/servers.yml</codeph> file) with a new MAC address,
          iLO/IPMI user, password, and IP address (iLO) if these have changed. Do not change the
          server's IP address (i.e.,<codeph> ip-add IP</codeph>). For
          example:<codeblock> - id: swobj5
   role: SWOBJ-ROLE
   server-group: rack2
   mac-addr: 8c:dc:d4:b5:cb:bd 
   nic-mapping: HP-DL360-6PORT
   ip-addr: 10.243.131.10
   ilo-ip: 10.1.12.88
   ilo-user: iLOuser
   ilo-password: iLOpass
  ...</codeblock></li>
        <li>Commit the changes to
          Git:<codeblock>cd ~helion
git commit -a -m "&lt;commit message>"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration
          processor:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create a deployment
          directory:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Remove the replaced Swift node from
            Cobbler:<codeblock>sudo cobbler system remove --name &lt;server-id></codeblock><p>For
            example:<codeblock>sudo cobbler system remove --name swobj5</codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Re-run the <codeph>cobbler-deploy.yml</codeph> playbook to re-add the replaced
          node:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Using Ansible, reimage the
            node:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&lt;server id></codeblock><p>In
            the example below, the server <b>swobj5</b> is
            reimaged.<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=swobj5</codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Review the <codeph>cloudConfig.yml</codeph> and<codeph> data/control_plane.yml</codeph>
          files to get the host prefix (for example, helion) and the control plane name (for
          example, cp1). This gives you the hostname of the node. Configure the operating
            system:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml –limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>In
            the following example, for <b>swobj5</b>, the hostname is
            <b>helion-cp1-swobj0005</b>:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml –limit helion-cp1-swobj0005*</codeblock></p></li>
        <li>If this is the first server running the <codeph>swift-proxy</codeph> service, restore
          the Swift Ring Builder files to the <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder_dir</codeph> directory.
          (For more information and instructions, see <xref
            href="first_proxy_server.dita#topic_rtc_s3t_mt"/> and <xref
            href="recovering_builder_file.dita#topic_gbz_13t_mt"/>.)</li>
        <li>Configure services on the node using the <codeph>site.yml</codeph> playbook. If you have
          used an encryption password when running the Configuration Processor, include the
            <codeph>--ask-vault-pass</codeph>
            argument.<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>For
            example:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit helion-cp1-swobj5*</codeblock></p></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
