<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ring-specification">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Understanding Ring Specifications</title>
  <body><!--Needs Work; fnf edit on 10/23; remaining issue: link to Product Support. [Binamra- unable to understand the comment]-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p><b>Overview of Ring Management</b></p>
    <p>In Swift, the ring is responsible for mapping data on particular disks. There is a separate
      ring for account databases, container databases, and  each object storage policy, but each
      ring works similarly. The <codeph>swift-ring-builder</codeph> utility is used to build and
      manage rings. This utility uses a builder file to contain ring information and additional data
      required to build future rings. In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, you can use the cloud model to
      specify how the rings are configured and used. This model is used to automatically invoke the
      swift-ring-builder utility as part of the deploy process. (Normally, you will not run the
      swift-ring-builder utility directly.)</p>
    <p>The rings are specified in the input model using the <b>ring-specifications</b> key. There is
      an entry for each distinct Swift system - hence the Keystone region name is specified in the
        <b>region-name</b> key of the example cloud model.</p>
    <p><b>Ring Specifications in the Input Model</b></p>
    <p>In the cloud model, a ring-specification is mentioned in the
        <codeph>data/swift/rings.yml</codeph> file. For example:</p>
    <p>
      <codeblock>ring-specifications:
    - region-name: region1
      rings:
        - name: account
          display-name: Account Ring
          min-part-time: 16
          partition-power: 12
          replication-policy:
            replica-count: 3
        - name: container
          display-name: Container Ring
          min-part-time: 16
          partition-power: 12
          replication-policy:
            replica-count: 3
        - name: object-0
          display-name: General
          default: yes
          min-part-time: 16
          partition-power: 12
          replication-policy:
            replica-count: 3</codeblock>
    </p>
    <p>The above sample file shows that the <b>region1</b> has three rings as follows: </p>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_hl3_q55_dt">
        <li><b>Account ring</b>: You must always specify a ring called <b>account</b>. The account
          ring is used by Swift to store metadata about the projects in your system. In Swift, a
          Keystone project maps to a Swift account. The <codeph>display-name</codeph> is
          informational and not used. </li>
        <li><b>Container ring</b>:You must always specify a ring called <b>container</b>. The
            <codeph>display-name</codeph> is informational and not used.</li>
        <li><b>Object ring</b>: This ring is also known as a storage policy. You must always specify
          a ring called <b>object-0</b>. It is possible to have multiple object rings, which is
          known as <i>storage policies</i>. The <codeph>display-name</codeph> is the name of the
          storage policy and can be used by users of the Swift system when they create containers.
          It allows them to specify the storage policy that the container uses. In the example, the
          storage policy is called <b>General</b>.</li>
        <li>
          <p><b>Min-part-time, partition-power, replication-policy</b> and <b>replica-count</b> are
            described in the following section. </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section><b>Ring Parameters</b></section>
    <section>The ring parameters are defined as follows:<simpletable id="simpletable_qyp_lnj_2t">
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>replica-count</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry><p>Defines the number of copies of object created.</p>Use this to control the
            degree of resiliency or availability. The <codeph>replica-count</codeph> is normally set
            to <b>3</b> (i.e., Swift will keep three copies of accounts, containers, or objects). As
            a best practice, you should not decrease the value to lower than 3. And, if you want a
            higher resiliency, you can increase the value.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>min-part-time</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry><p>Changes the value used to decide a given partition can be moved.</p>This is
            the number of hours that the <codeph>swift-ring-builder</codeph> tool will enforce
            between ring rebuilds. On a small system, this can be as low as <b>1</b> (one hour). The
            value can be different for each ring. <p>In the example above, the
                <codeph>swift-ring-builder</codeph> will enforce a minimum of 16 hours between ring
              rebuilds. However, this time is system-dependent so you will be unable to determine
              the appropriate value for <codeph>min-part-time</codeph> until you have more
              experience with your system.</p></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>partition-power</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>The optimal value for this parameter is related to the number of disk drives that
            you allocate to Swift storage. As a best practice, you should use the same drives for
            both the account and container rings. In this case, the <codeph>partition-power</codeph>
            value should be the same. For more information, see <xref
              href="#ring-specification/selecting-partition-power" format="dita">Selecting a
              Partition Power</xref>.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>replication-policy</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>Specifies that a ring uses replicated storage. The duplicate copies of the object
            are created and stored on different disk drives. All replicas are identical. If one is
            lost or corrupted, the system automatically copies one of the remaining replicas to
            restore the missing replica.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>default</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>The default value in the above sample file of ring-specification is set to
              <b>yes</b>, which means that the storage policy is enabled to store objects. For more
            information, see <xref href="storage_policies.dita"/>.</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable></section>
    <!--  
    <section id="make-changes-ring"><b>Making Changes to the Ring Specifications</b><p>The ring
        specification provided in the example model contains adequate configuration details to
        deploy Swift. However, there may be reasons for changing the model as follows: </p><ul
        id="ul_ef1_y55_dt">
        <li>Your system has more servers and disks than in the mid sized cloud example. Therefore,
          you may require to pick a different value for <codeph>partition-power</codeph>. The
          appropriate value is related to the number of disk drives you allocate for the account and
          container storage. We recommend that you use the same drives for both the account and
          container rings. Hence, the <codeph>partition-power</codeph> value should be the same. For
          more information about selecting an appropriate value, refer to <xref
            href="#topic_efw_k55_dt/selection-partition" format="dita">Selecting a Partition
            Power</xref>.</li>
        <li>You require high resiliency or availability and want a higher replica count. The
            <codeph>replica-count</codeph> is normally 3 (i.e., Swift will keep three copies of
          accounts and containers). It is <b>recommended</b> not to change the value to lower than
          3.</li>
        <li>You require a different name for the Storage Policy. If so, edit the
            <codeph>display-name</codeph> of the object-0 ring. This must be a single word
          (character such as underscore or dash are allowed). This is visible to your end
          users.</li>
        <li>Your system has more servers and disks than in the mid sized cloud example and the time
          to replicate data during a ring rebuild is longer than 16 hours. However, this time is
          system-dependent so you will be unable to figure out the appropriate value for
            <codeph>min-part-time</codeph> until you have more experience with your
            system.<p>Therefore, during the initial deployment of Swift, we suggest not to make
            changes in <b>min-part-time</b>. </p></li>
      </ul></section>-->
    <section id="selecting-partition-power">
      <title>Selecting a Partition Power</title>
      <p>When storing an object, the object storage system hashes the name. This hash results in a
        hit on a partition (so a number of different object names result in the same partition
        number). Generally, the partition is mapped to available disk drives. With a replica count
        of 3, each partition is mapped to three different disk drives. The hashing algorithm used
        hashes over a fixed number of partitions. The partition-power attribute determines the
        number of partitions you have. </p>
      <p>Partition power is used to distribute the data uniformly across drives in a Swift nodes. It
        also defines the storage cluster capacity. You must set the part partition power value based
        on the total amount of storage you expect your entire ring to use. </p>
    </section>
    <p>You should select a partition power for a given ring that is appropriate to the number of
      disk drives you allocate to the ring for the following reasons: </p>
    <ul id="ul_i4b_gv5_dt">
      <li>If you use a high partition power and have a few disk drives, each disk drive will have
        thousands of partitions. With too many partitions, audit and other processes in the Object
        Storage system cannot walk the partitions in a reasonable time and updates will not occur in
        a timely manner.</li>
      <li>If you use a low partition power and have many disk drives, you will have tens (or maybe
        only one) partition on a drive. The Object Storage system does not use size when hashing to
        a partition - it hashes the name.
          <!--If sizes and names are randomly distributed, it is normally expected a random, even,  distribution of sizes within a partition. However, this may not happen (i.e., two neighboring partitions may have different sizes). --><p>With
          many partitions on a drive, a large partition is cancelled out by a smaller partition so
          the overall drive usage is similar. However, with very small numbers of partitions, the
          uneven distribution of sizes can be reflected in uneven disk drive usage (so one drive
          becomes full while a neighboring drive is empty).</p></li>
    </ul>
    <p>An ideal number of partitions per drive is 100. If you know the number of drives, select a
      partition power that will give you approximately 100 partitions per drive. Usually, you
      install a system with a specific number of drives and add drives as needed. However, you
      cannot change the value of the partition power. Hence you must select a value that is a
      compromise between current and planned capacity. </p>
    <p>
      <note type="important">If you are installing a small capacity system and you need to grow to a
        very large capacity but you cannot fit within any of the ranges in the table, please seek
        help from Professional Services to plan your system.</note>
    </p>
    <p>There are additional factors that can help mitigate the fixed nature of the partition
      power:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Account and container storage represents a small fraction (typically 1 percent) of your
        object storage needs. Hence, you can select a smaller partition power (relative to object
        ring partition power) for the account and container rings. </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li>For object storage, you can add additional storage policies (i.e., another object ring).
          When you have reached capacity in an existing storage policy, you can add a new storage
          policy with a higher partition power (because you now have more disk drives in your
          system). This means that you can install your system using a small partition power
          appropriate to a small number of initial disk drives. Later, when you have many disk
          drives, the new storage policy can have a higher value appropriate to the larger number of
          drives.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p> However, when you continue to add storage capacity, existing containers will continue to use
      their original storage policy. Hence, the additional objects must be added to new containers
      to take advantage of the new storage policy.</p>
    <p>Use the following table to select an appropriate partition power for each ring. The partition
      power of a ring cannot be changed, so it is important to select an appropriate value. This
      table is based on a replica count of 3. If your replica count is different, or you are unable
      to find your system in the table, then see <xref href="#ring-specification/calculating-number"
        format="dita">Calculating Numbers of Partitions</xref> for information of selecting a
      partition power. </p>
    <p> The table assumes that when you first deploy Swift, you have a small number of drives (the
      minimum column in the table), and later you add drives. </p>
    <p>
      <note>
        <ul>
          <li>Use the total number of drives. For example, if you have three servers, each with two
            drives, the total number of drives is six.</li>
          <li>The lookup should be done separately for each of the account, container and object
            rings. Since account and containers represent approximately 1 to 2 percent of object
            storage, you will probably use fewer drives for the account and container rings (i.e.,
            you will have fewer proxy, account, and container (PAC) servers) so that your object
            rings may have a higher partition power.</li>
          <li>The largest anticipated number of drives imposes a limit in the minimum drives you can
            have. (For more information, see <xref href="#ring-specification/calculating-number"
              format="dita">Calculating Numbers of Partitions</xref>.) This means that, if you
            anticipate significant growth, your initial system can be small, but under a certain
            limit. For example, if you determine that the maximum number of drives the system will
            grow to is 40,000, then use a partition power of 17 as listed in the table below. In
            addition, a minimum of 36 drives is required to build the smallest system with this
            partition power.</li>
          <li>The table assumes that disk drives are the same size. The actual size of a drive is
            not significant.</li>
        </ul>
      </note>
    </p>
    <section id="partition-power"><b>Partition Power Matrix</b><table frame="all" rowsep="1"
        colsep="1" id="table_fz3_2hg_dt">
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Number of drives during deployment (minimum)</entry>
              <entry>Number of drives in largest anticipated system (maximum)</entry>
              <entry>Recommended partition power</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>6</entry>
              <entry>5,000</entry>
              <entry>14</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>12</entry>
              <entry>10,000</entry>
              <entry>15</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>36</entry>
              <entry>40,000</entry>
              <entry>17</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>72</entry>
              <entry>80,000</entry>
              <entry>18</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>128</entry>
              <entry>160,000</entry>
              <entry>19</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>256</entry>
              <entry>300,000</entry>
              <entry>20</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>512</entry>
              <entry>600,000</entry>
              <entry>21</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>1024</entry>
              <entry>1,200,00</entry>
              <entry>22</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>2048</entry>
              <entry>2,500,000</entry>
              <entry>23</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>5120</entry>
              <entry>5,000,000</entry>
              <entry>24</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></section>
    <section id="calculating-number"><b>Calculating Numbers of Partitions</b><p>The Object Storage
        system hashes a given name into a specific partition. For each partition, for a replica
        count of 3, there are three partition directories. The partition directories are then evenly
        scattered over all drives. You can calculate the number of partition directories as
        follows:<codeblock>number-partition-directories-per-drive = ( (2 ** partition-power) * replica-count ) / number-of-drives</codeblock></p></section>
    <p>An ideal number of partition directories per drive is 100. However, the system can operate
      normally with a wide range of number of partition directories per drive. The table  <xref
        href="#ring-specification/partition-power" format="dita">Partition Power Matrix</xref> is
      based on the following: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>A replica count of 3.</li>
      <li>For a given partition power, the minimum number of drives results in approximately 10,000
        partition directories per drive. More directories on a drive results in performance
        issues.</li>
      <li>For a given partition power, using the maximum number of drives results in approximately
        10 partition directories per drive. Using fewer directories per drive results in an uneven
        distribution of space usage.</li>
    </ul>
    <p> It is easy to select an appropriate partition power if your system is a fixed size. Select a
      value that gives the closest value to 100 partition directories per drive. If your system
      starts smaller and then grows, the issue is more complicated. The following two techniques may
      help:</p>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li>Start with a system that is closer to your final anticipated system size - this means
          that you can use a high partition power that suits your final system.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>You can add additional storage policies as the system grows. These storage policies can
        have a higher partition power because there will be more drives in a larger system. Note
        that this does not help account and container rings - storage policies are only applicable
        to object rings.</li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
