<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_d3l_svr_4t">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Managing Object Storage (Swift) Rings</title>
  <body>
    <p>The rings are a machine-readable description of which disk drives are used by Swift (for
      example, a drive is used to store account or object data). Rings also specify the policy for
      data storage (for example, defining the number of replicas). The rings are automatically built
      during the initial deployment of the system, with the configuration provided during setup of
      the HP Helion OpenStack Input Model. (For more information, see <xref
        href="../input_model.dita#input_model"/>.) </p>
    <p>After successful deployment of your cloud, you may want to change or modify the configuration
      for Swift. For example, you may want to add or remove Swift nodes, add additional storage
      policies, or upgrade the size of disk drives. For instructions, see <xref
        href="input_model_change_existing_rings.dita#topic_vyp_cft_4t">Applying Input Model Changes
        to Existing Rings</xref> and <xref href="add_new_storage_policy.dita#topic_evl_wln_pt"
        >Adding a New Storage Policy - Swift.</xref></p>
    <p>
      <note>The process of modifying or adding a configuration is similar to other configuration or
        topology change in the cloud. Generally, you make the changes to the input model files at
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/</codeph> and run Ansible playbooks to reconfigure
        the system.</note>
    </p>
    <p>Changes to the rings require several phases to complete the process of
      deployment<!--after modification or adding of new Swift configuration in the YAML file-->.
      Therefore, you may need to run the playbooks several times over several days. </p>
    <p>The following topics cover ring management:</p>
    <p>
      <!--The following section explains the reason for the requirement of several phases for the change of the ring.-->
      <ul id="ul_pgc_plz_4t">
        <li><xref href="rebalanced_explained.dita">Rebalance Explained</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="setting_up_weight_attributes_ring_changes.dita">Using the Weight-Step Attributes to Prepare for
            Ring Changes</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="playbook_linked_ring_management.dita">Swift Playbooks Linked to Ring
            Management</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita">Determining When it is Safe to Rebalance
            and Deploy a New Ring</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="input_model_change_existing_rings.dita">Applying Input Model Changes to
            Existing Rings</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="add_new_storage_policy.dita#topic_evl_wln_pt"/></li>
        <li><xref href="how_to_change_min_part_time.dita#topic_ybt_mhb_kt"/></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
