<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ohx_j1t_4t">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: When it is safe to rebalance and deploy a new ring?</title>
  <body>
    <p>Before deploying a new ring, you must know the change that has been applied to the last ring,
      i.e., all the partitions are in their correct location (for example: replication) is complete.
      There are three aspects to this:</p>
    <ul id="ul_dnm_m1t_4t">
      <li>
        <p>Is the replication system busy? </p>
        <p>You might want to postpone a ring change until after the system settles down. If the
          replication system is busy repairing a failed drive, a ring change will place additional
          load on the system. To check that replication has finished, use the
            <codeph>swift-recon</codeph> command with the <b>--replication</b> argument. See <xref
            href="validating_swift_recon.dita"> swift-recon</xref> for more information. The oldest
          completion time can indicate that the replication process is very busy. If it is more than
          15-20 minutes then the object replication process are probably still very busy. The
          following example indicates that the oldest completion is 120 seconds. This indicates that
          the replication process is probably not
          busy:<codeblock>$ sudo swift-recon --replication
===============================================================================
--> Starting reconnaissance on 3 hosts
===============================================================================
[2015-10-02 15:31:45] Checking on replication
[replication_time] low: 0, high: 0, avg: 0.0, total: 0, Failed: 0.0%, no_result: 0, reported: 3
Oldest completion was 2015-10-02 15:31:32 (120 seconds ago) by 192.168.245.4:6000.
Most recent completion was 2015-10-02 15:31:43 (10 seconds ago) by 192.168.245.3:6000.
===============================================================================</codeblock></p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_k2d_2dt_4t">
        <li>
          <p>Are there drive or server failures? </p>
          <p>A drive failure does not preclude deploying a new ring. In principal, there should be
            two copies elsewhere. However, <i>another</i> drive failure in the middle of replication
            might make data temporary unavailable. If possible, postpone ring changes until all
            servers and drives are operating normally.</p>
        </li>
        <li>Has min-part-time elapsed? <p>The <codeph>swift-ring-builder</codeph> will refuse to
            build a new ring until min-part-time hours has elapsed since the last time it built
            rings. You must postpone changes until this time has elapsed. Alternatively you can
            change the value of min-part-time (See <xref href="how_to_change_min_part_power.dita"
              >Changing min-part-time</xref>).</p></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
