<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_t1y_vjs_4t">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Using the Weight-Step Attributes to Prepare for Ring Changes</title>
  <body><!--Needs Work; fnf edits on 10/23-->
    <p>Rings are built during a deployment and this process sets the weights of disk drives such
      that smaller disk drives have a smaller weight than larger disk drives. When making changes in
      the ring, you should limit the amount of change that occurs. HPE Helion OpenStack 2.0 does this
      by limiting the weights of the new drives to a smaller value and then building new rings. Once
      the replication process has finished, HPE Helion OpenStack 2.0 will increase the weight and
      rebuild rings to trigger another round of replication. (For more information, see <xref
        href="rebalanced_explained.dita#topic_izw_1mz_4t"/>.)</p>
    <p>In addition, you should become familiar with how the replication process behaves on your
      system during normal operation. Before making ring changes, use the
        <codeph>swift-recon</codeph> command to determine the typical oldest replication times for
      your system. For instructions, see <xref href="safe_rebalance_deploy_ring.dita">Determining
        When it is Safe to Rebalance and Deploy a New Ring</xref>.</p>
    <p>In HPE Helion OpenStack, the weight-step attribute is set in the ring specification of the
      input model. The weight-step value specifies a maximum value for the change of the weight of a
      drive in any single rebalance. For example, if you add a drive of 4TB, you would normally
      assign a weight of 4096. However, if the weight-step attribute is set to 1024, when you add a
      drive, the weight is initially set to 1024. The next time you rebalance the ring, the weight
      is set to 2048. Yet another rebalance sets the weight to the final value of 4096.</p>
    <p>The value of the weight-step attribute is dependent on the size of the drives, number of the
      servers being added, and how experienced you are with the replication process. A common
      starting value is to use 20 percent of the size of the drives. For example, for 4TB drives a
      value of 820 would be appropriate. As you gain more experience with your system, you may
      increase or reduce this value.</p>
    <section id="setting-weight-step-attribute"><sectiondiv><b>Setting the weight-step attribute</b></sectiondiv><p>Perform the following steps to set the weight-step attribute:<ol id="ol_dl2_bdy_4t">
          <li>Edit the <codeph>data/swift/rings.yml</codeph> file containing the ring-specifications
            in the input model.</li>
          <li>Search the attributes of a ring. In the following example we are setting the attribute
            for the account ring. Repeat this procedure for the container and object
            rings.<codeblock>- name: account
  display-name: Account Ring
  min-part-time: 16
  ...</codeblock></li>
          <li>Add the weight-step
              attribute:<codeblock>- name: account
  <b>weight-step: &lt;value></b>
  display-name: Account Ring
  min-part-time: 16
  ...</codeblock><p>For
              example, to set weight-step to 820, add the
              attribute:<codeblock>- name: account
  weight-step: <b>820</b>
  display-name: Account Ring
  min-part-time: 16
  ...</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>Repeat step 3 for other rings (container, object-0, etc).</li>
          <li>Run the Configuration Processor:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Use the playbook to create a deployment directory:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
