[See version 1.1 of this page](/)
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6272">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Glossary</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0glossary.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/user/reference/glossary/--></p>
<section id="see-the-helion-11-development-platform-version-of-this-page"> <title>

</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>AMQP</dt>
<dd>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol" scope="external" format="html" >Advanced Message Queuing
Protocol</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Apache ANT</dt>
<dd>A software tool for automating software build processes. See
<xref href="http://ant.apache.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Ant</xref> for more info.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Apache Maven</dt>
<dd>A build automation tool typically used for Java projects. See
<xref href="http://maven.apache.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Maven</xref> for more info.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>app</dt>
<dd>Any application software intended for instantiation in Application Lifecycle Service. At
minimum it consists of the application, expressed in a dynamic
language, plus a configuration file named 
<i>manifest.yml</i>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Avahi</dt>
<dd>An implementation of <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-multicast-dns">
<i>multicast DNS</i>
</xref> and
related protocols.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>cluster</dt>
<dd>A set of interconnected physical processors or virtual machines,
managed at least conceptually as a single entity but otherwise
operating autonomously. Historically the term carried a variety of
proprietary meanings, but came into general use with the rapid
development of supercomputing based upon <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beowulf_cluster" scope="external" format="html" >Beowulf
Clusters</xref>. An Application Lifecycle Service
cluster is one in which <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-role">
<i>role</i>
</xref>s are assigned or
replicated to multiple cluster <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-node">
<i>node</i>
</xref>s.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>component</dt>
<dd>Within Application Lifecycle Service, the term <b>component</b> is used when naming a
discrete part of the Application Lifecycle Service server. For example, a
<xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-role">
<i>role</i>
</xref> is made up of one or more components.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>container</dt>
<dd>A lightweight form of virtualization which provides resource
isolation and secure separation for multiple instances of the same
base system. According to circumstances it may be used in addition
to or instead of hypervisor virtualization.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>CPAN</dt>
<dd>Acronym for <xref href="http://www.cpan.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Comprehensive Perl Archive
Network</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>doozerd</dt>
<dd>A consistent distributed data store. Used for cluster management in
Application Lifecycle Service. (see <xref href="https://github.com/ha/doozerd#readme" scope="external" format="html" >Doozer project on
GitHub</xref>)</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>DHCP</dt>
<dd>
<xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Host_Configuration_Protocol" scope="external" format="html" >Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol</xref>.
The DHCP service is used to allocate IP addresses to clients on
demand and to supply other basic network information they need, such
as the addresses of a default router and DNS server.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>DNS</dt>
<dd>
<xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System" scope="external" format="html" >Domain Name
System</xref>. Resolves
domain names to IP addresses.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>dnsmasq</dt>
<dd>A <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dnsmasq" scope="external" format="html" >lightweight server</xref> for
locally integrating DNS with DHCP/BOOTP.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>dynamic DNS</dt>
<dd>A means of rapidly updating the Domain Name System, possibly making
use of <xref href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2136" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>RFC 2136</b>
</xref>
Dynamic Updates.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>filesystem</dt>
<dd>In Application Lifecycle Service, <b>filesystem</b> refers to persistent storage accessed by
an application :term`service` specified in <i>manifest.yml</i> through
a server which has been assigned the filesystem
<xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-role">
<i>role</i>
</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>JSON</dt>
<dd>A notation for structured text data, acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON" scope="external" format="html" >JavaScript Object
Notation</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>MBUS</dt>
<dd>Application Lifecycle Service's implementation of an <xref href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3259" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>RFC
3259</b>
</xref> message queue used
for interprocess communication. <i>See also:</i> <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-nats">
<i>NATS</i>
</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>memcached</dt>
<dd>Free &amp; open source, high-performance, distributed memory object
caching system, generic in nature, but intended for use in speeding
up dynamic web applications by alleviating database load. (see
<xref href="http://memcached.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Memcached project page</xref>)</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>micro cloud</dt>
<dd>A preconfigured Application Lifecycle Service virtual machine image consisting of a
single generic <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-node">
<i>node</i>
</xref> enabled for all the
<xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-role">
<i>role</i>
</xref>s necessary for basic operation, but with no
preinstalled <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-app">
<i>app</i>
</xref>s or <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-service">
<i>service</i>
</xref>s.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>mongodb</dt>
<dd>A popular <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NoSQL" scope="external" format="html" >noSQL</xref> database
management system.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>multicast DNS</dt>
<dd>A distributed means of configuring DNS by <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS" scope="external" format="html" >multicast
discovery</xref>. It is
supported on Application Lifecycle Service :term`micro cloud` servers using
<xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-avahi">
<i>Avahi</i>
</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>mysql</dt>
<dd>A relational database management system.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>NAT</dt>
<dd>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation" scope="external" format="html" >Network Address
Translation</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>NATS</dt>
<dd>In Application Lifecycle Service, a publish-subscribe message system implemented as a
process called <codeph>nats-server</codeph> which listens on a
network interface, normally on port 4222/tcp. Messages published
across the network to a particular <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-mbus">
<i>MBUS</i>
</xref> queue
managed by the nats-server are communicated to clients which are
subscribed to that queue.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Nginx</dt>
<dd>
<xref href="http://wiki.nginx.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Nginx</xref> is a high-performance, event-driven
web server.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>node</dt>
<dd>An Application Lifecycle Service <b>node</b> is a single processing host in a
<xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-cluster">
<i>cluster</i>
</xref>, typically a virtual machine running
under a hypervisor.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>OVF</dt>
<dd>Acronym for <xref href="http://dmtf.org/standards/ovf" scope="external" format="html" >Open Virtualization
Format</xref>, a specification for virtual
machine images developed by the DMTF industry consortium.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>PaaS</dt>
<dd>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_as_a_service" scope="external" format="html" >Platform as a
Service</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>pip</dt>
<dd>A tool for installing and managing Python packages, such as those
found in the Python Package Index. It's a replacement for
easy_install. See
<xref href="http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/" scope="external" format="html" >pip-installer</xref> for more
information.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>PyPM</dt>
<dd>PyPM is the <i>binary</i> package manager for ActivePython. It is usually
the fastest and most reliable way of installing PyPI packages for
your Application Lifecycle Service applications. The PyPM repository hosts almost all of
the Python packages registered in PyPI and includes their latest
versions. See <xref href="http://code.activestate.com/pypm" scope="external" format="html" >PyPM</xref> for more
information.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Polipo</dt>
<dd>A lightweight caching web proxy intended for small applications.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>postgresql</dt>
<dd>A relational database management system.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>private PaaS</dt>
<dd>A private <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-paas">
<i>PaaS</i>
</xref> is one which is hosted on your
private cloud, behind your firewall.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>RabbitMQ</dt>
<dd>A <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_broker" scope="external" format="html" >message broker</xref>
subsystem which implements <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-amqp">
<i>AMQP</i>
</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>Redis</dt>
<dd>An implementation of memory resident key-value store.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>resolvconf</dt>
<dd>A system configuration tool typically used by hook scripts at boot
time. See the <xref href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man8/resolvconf.8.html" scope="external" format="html" >resolvconf man
page</xref>
for details.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>role</dt>
<dd>Each <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-node">
<i>node</i>
</xref> in an Application Lifecycle Service <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-cluster">
<i>cluster</i>
</xref>
may be assigned certain selectable capabilities within the Application Lifecycle Service
architecture. These capabilities are called <b>roles</b>, and are
usually denoted in lowercase. Examples of essential roles are
<b>router</b>, <b>primary</b>, <b>controller</b>, and <b>dea</b>. In addition,
there are <b>role groups</b> (for convenience) such as
<b>data-services</b> that represent all data-services. (postgresql
mysql rabbit mongodb redis filesystem memcached)</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>service</dt>
<dd>In Application Lifecycle Service, a <b>service</b> is a type of <xref type="section" href="#topic6272/term-role">
<i>role</i>
</xref> that
may be provisioned on a server and accessed by an application as
specified in <i>manifest.yml</i>.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>supervisord</dt>
<dd>A process control system used by Application Lifecycle Service internally. (see
<xref href="http://supervisord.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Supervisor project page</xref>)</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>tty console</dt>
<dd>The hypervisor window which provides serial console access to one of
its virtual machines.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>YAML</dt>
<dd>A notation for structured text data, acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML" scope="external" format="html" >YAML Ain't Markup
Language</xref>, used in<i>manifest.yml</i> configuration files.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
