---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/miscellaneous/
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: ALS Command Reference: Miscellaneous"
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: ALS Command Reference: Miscellaneous

- [helion admin](#command-admin): A set of administrative tasks.
- [helion alias](#command-alias): Create a shortcut for a command.	
- [helion aliases](#command-aliases): List the known aliases (shortcuts).
- [helion color](#command-color): Management of terminal colors.
- [helion curl](#command-curl): Run a raw REST request against the chosen target.
- [helion drain](#command-drain): Commands for the management of drains attached to applications.
- [helion guid](#command-guid): Map the specified name into a GUID given the type.
- [helion help](#command-help): Retrieve help for a command or command set.
- [helion named-entities](#command-named-entities): List the entity types usable for GUID.
- [helion trace](#command-trace): Print the saved REST trace for the last client command to stdout.
- [helion unalias](#command-unalias): Remove a shortcut by name.

## Syntax

	helion [options] command [arguments] [command-options]
For more information, use the **helion help** or **helion help [*command*]** commands.

<hr />

## helion admin {#command-admin}
A set of administrative tasks.

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td>
</tr><td>None</td>
</tr>
</table>

## helion alias <*name*> <*command*> {#command-alias}
Create a shortcut (alias) for a command.
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td>
</tr><td>None</td>
</tr>
</table>
## helion aliases {#command-aliases}
List the known aliases (shortcuts).

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr>
<tr><td>--json</td>
<td>Print raw json as output, not human-formatted data.</td>
</tr>
</table>

## helion color {#command-color}
Management of terminal colors

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td>
</tr><td>None</td>
</tr>
</table>

##helion curl <*operation*> <*path*> <*header*> {#command-curl}
Run a raw REST request against the chosen target.

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr>
<tr><td>--data, -d</td><td>Payload to use for PUT and POST. Cannot be used with neither GET nor DELETE. A value of "-" or "stdin" causes the client to read the data from stdin.</td></tr>
<tr><td>--form</td><td>Zero or more form fields to be added to the base url. Data is in the form of "key: value".</td></tr>
<tr><td>--output, -o</td><td>Path to the file to write the returned payload to. A value of "-" or "stdin" causes the client to write the data to stdout.</td></tr>
<tr><td>--port</td><td>The port to use for the request. Only relevant to websocket operation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>--reconnect</td><td>Automatically reconnect when the websocket server closes the connection. Only relevant to websocket operation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>--show-extended</td><td>Show additional information about the request; for example, response headers.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>--target</td>
<td>The once-off target to use for the current operation.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--token</td>
<td>The once-off authentication token to use for the current
operation.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--token-file</td>
<td>Path to an existing and readable file containing the targets and
authorization tokens.</td>
<tr><td>--web-socket, -ws</td><td>Switch to WebSocket mode for GET. Cannot be used with any other operation.</td></tr>
</tr>
</table>

## helion drain {command-drain}
Commands for the management of drains attached to applications.

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td>
</tr><td>None</td>
</tr>
</table>

##helion guid <*type*> <*name*> {#command-guid}
Map the specified name into a uuid, given the type. 
    
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr><td>--json</td>
<td>Print raw json as output, not human-formatted data.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--no-prompt</td>
<td>Disable interactive queries.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--non-interactive</td>
<td>Alias of --no-prompt.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--noprompt</td>
<td>Alias of --no-prompt.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>-n</td>
<td>Alias of --no-prompt.</td>
</tr>
</table>

## helion help <*CommandName*> {#command-help}
Retrieve help for a command or command set. Without an argument, help for all commands is given. The default format is *--full*.

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr><td>--by-category</td>
<td>Activate by-category form of the help.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--full</td>
<td>Activate full form of the help.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--json</td>
<td>Activate json form of the help.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--list</td>
<td>Activate list form of the help.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--short</td>
<td>Activate short form of the help.</td>
</tr>    <tr><td>--width, -w</td>
<td>The line width to format the help for. Defaults to the terminal
width, or 80 when no terminal is available. </tr>
</table>

## helion named-entities {#command-named-entities}
List the entity types usable for 'guid'. I.e. the types of the
    named entities known to the client.
    
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr><td>--json</td>
<td>Print raw json as output, not human-formatted data.</td>
</tr> 
</table>

## helion trace {#command-trace}
Print the saved REST trace for the last client command to stdout.
    
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td><td><b>Description</b></td>
</tr>
<tr><td>--short</td>
<td>Shows only the short list of requests without details like headers and responses.</td>
</tr>
</tr></table>

## helion unalias <*name*> {#command-unalias}
Remove a shortcut (alias) by name.

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<td style="width: 200px;"><b>Option</b></td>
</tr><td>None</td>
</tr>
</table>
