---
layout: default
title: "HP Cloud OS API Quick Start"
permalink: /cloudos/en/120/api/quickstart/
product: cloudos
---

# HP Cloud OS API Quick Start

Topics:

* [HP Cloud OS API Introduction
** [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

## HP Cloud OS API Introduction

Welcome to the HP Cloud OS 1.2.0 release. For developers, HP Cloud OS includes a REST API that allows you to interact programmatically with your clouds.  
        This API Quick Start topic is designed to help you learn the API by introducing the HP Cloud OS services and walking through several use cases.  
        On your deployed clouds, we have also provided the HP Cloud OS API Documentation app. It's a framework for describing, producing, consuming, and visualizing the API. 
        The app includes comprehensive reference API documentation and an interactive environment where you can try each request and view the response from your server. 
   
Also refer to the [OpenStack API documentation](http://docs.openstack.org).   

### Prerequisites

This topic assumes that you have already:

* Installed and set up HP Cloud OS, following the instructions in the HP Cloud OS Installation Guide. 
* Used the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard to define the OS image and related components for your cloud.
* Launched an OS image on your cloud instance.
* Created a project.

If you have not yet set up a cloud, refer to the HP Cloud OS Installation Guide for instructions.

Note: After a cloud environment has been created 
            in the Operational Dashboard, you manage the cloud            
            through the Administration Dashboard. The Administration Dashboard provides a simplified means             
            of creating and managing Cloud Connector resources, infrastructure topology templates, resource             
            binding documents, as well as the ability to provision a composite topology described by the             
            topology templates and binding documents.
            
For details about the user interface dialogs, see the <i>HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard Guide</i> and 
            the <i>HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Guide</i>, which were provided on the FTP site for this 
            release.
            
To submit REST API calls, you will need your Keystone authentication credentials so you can generate security tokens. 
The steps are described in the [API Security Tokens](#API-Security-Tokens) section of this topic.
   
As you walk through the examples in this topic and submit REST calls, you'll need to provide the actual values that pertain to your cloud. We'll 
             identify the properties you must modify in the REST calls, including some that are generated by prior calls and shown in the POST responses.
        
In call payloads, we recommend that you set the scope to the default <code>user-project</code> level, 
            to prevent unintended impacts on other projects.

## Upstream Documentation

Cloud OS is based on (and adds value to) the OpenStack technology. Refer to the OpenStack documentation site.

* [OpenStack documentation home page](http://docs.openstack.org/)
* [OpenStack Glossary](http://docs.openstack.org/glossary/content/glossary.html)
* [OpenStack End User Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/index.html)
* [OpenStack Cloud Administrator Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/openstack-compute/admin/content/index.html)
* [OpenStack Networking Administration Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/openstack-network/admin/content/index.html)
* [OpenStack Operations Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/openstack-ops/content/index.html)

Copyright &copy; 2012-2013 Hewlett-Packard Corp. All rights reserved.
