<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="troubleshooting_logging">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Troubleshooting the Centralized Logging
    Service</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <note type="attention">Hyperlinks intermittently do not work in the Google Chrome browser. <xref
      href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/troubleshooting/troubleshooting_logging.html"
      scope="external" format="html">Click here</xref> for a frameless version of this page where
      the links should work.</note>
    <section id="about">
      <p>We have gathered some of the common issues and troubleshooting steps that will help when
        resolving issues that occur with the Centralized Logging service.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_logging.dita#troubleshooting_logging/log_collection"
          >Situations In Which Logs Might Not Be Collected</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_logging.dita#troubleshooting_logging/kibana_visualization"
          >Error When Creating a Kibana Visualization</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    
    <section id="log_collection"><title>Situations In Which Logs Might Not Be Collected</title>
      <p>Centralized logging might not collect log data under the following circumstances:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>If the Beaver service is not running on one or more of the nodes (controller or
          compute), logs from these nodes will not be collected.</li>
        <li>Beaver watches the log files for any additions and only pushes the incremental log
          records for centralized logging. It does not parse all the existing log records in the log
          files that were added <b>before</b> Beaver started watching those files. Similarly, if
          Beaver was stopped for some reason and then started again later, the logs that were added
          during the time span that Beaver was not running will not be collected for centralized
          logging.</li>
        <li>The logging service uses a RabbitMQ queue and this queue is not persistent. This means,
          if the RabbitMQ service on the master node is restarted for some reason, all messages that
          are not yet consumed by the logstash workers might be lost.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to-21"/>
    <section id="kibana_visualization"><title>Error When Creating a Kibana Visualization</title>
      <p>When creating a visualization in Kibana you may get an error similiar to this:
        <codeblock>"logstash-*" index pattern does not contain any of the following field types: number</codeblock></p>
      <p>To resolve this issue:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to Kibana.</li>
        <li>Navigate to the <codeph>Settings</codeph> page.</li>
        <li>Select the <codeph>logstash-*</codeph> index in the left panel.</li>
        <li>Click the refresh button. You may see a mapping conflict warning after refreshing the
          index.</li>
        <li>Re-create the visualization.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>