<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="troubleshooting_sherpa">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Troubleshooting the Sherpa Service</title>
  <body>
    <note type="attention">Hyperlinks intermittently do not work in the Google Chrome browser. <xref
        href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/troubleshooting/troubleshooting_sherpa.html"
        scope="external" format="html">Click here</xref> for a frameless version of this page where
      the links should work.</note>
    <section id="about">
      <p>We have gathered some of the common issues and troubleshooting steps that will help when
        resolving issues that occur with the Sherpa service.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/database">How to Access
            the MySQL Database</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/checkstatus">How to Check
            and Reset the Job Status</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/cleanup">How to Clean Up
            Sherpa When a Download or Install of a CSU File Failed</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/failrecover">How to
            Recover a Download Failure</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/proxy">How to Set
            http_proxy in Sherpa</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section id="database"><title>How to Access the MySQL Database</title>
      <p>From any controller node, use this commmand:</p>
      <codeblock>mysql -u sherpa -p</codeblock>
      <p>The Sherpa database password is in the <codeph>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeph> file.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="checkstatus">
      <title>How to Check and Reset the Job Status</title>
      <p>Log into the Sherpa database per the <xref
          href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/database">steps above</xref>.</p>
      <p>Once you have accessed the database, you can use these commands to check the status from
        the <codeph>mysql</codeph> prompt:</p>
      <codeblock>mysql> use sherpa;
mysql> select catalogId, status, type, startTime, endTime from jobs;</codeblock>
      <p>The status value will be in the range of <codeph>[0, 1, 2, 3, 4]</codeph>, where:</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_bdd_rwx_b5">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Value</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>0</entry>
              <entry>CREATED</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>1</entry>
              <entry>PROCESSING</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>2</entry>
              <entry>SUCCESS</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>3</entry>
              <entry>FAILED</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>4</entry>
              <entry>CANCELLED</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>

    <section id="cleanup"><title>How to Clean Up Sherpa When a Download or Install of a CSU File
        Failed</title>
      <ol>
        <li>If Sherpa has already pushed the images to Glance then you will need to remove all
          images of the CSU file from Glance.</li>
        <li>Remove the cache file of the CSU file in the <codeph>sherpa_cache</codeph> Swift
          container or in <codeph>/var/cache/sherpa</codeph>. This step is optional since the
          subsequent download will overwrite the old Sherpa cache.</li>
        <li>Check the job status of the CSU file using the <xref
            href="troubleshooting_sherpa.dita#troubleshooting_sherpa/checkstatus">steps
          above</xref>. If the status is 0 or 1, change it to 3.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="failrecover"><title>How to Recover a Download Failure</title>
      <p>If there is a broken network connection in the middle of a download, Sherpa will retry. If
        Sherpa cannot automatically recover the failure then you should follow the steps above to
        clean up the failed download and retry once the network connection is restored.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="proxy"><title>How to Set http_proxy in Sherpa</title>
      <p>If the HPE Helion OpenStack environment is behind a firewall, you need to set the Sherpa
        proxy shell variables so that the Sherpa service can communicate out to the Helion Download
        Network (HDN).</p>
      <p>On each of your controller nodes, perform these steps to set the proxies:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Edit the sherpa.conf file on each controller node in the following location:
          <codeblock>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeblock></li>
        <li>Verify that the <codeph>http_proxy</codeph> and <codeph>https_proxy</codeph> is set
          appropriately for your environment.
          <codeblock>http_proxy=http://myproxy.example.com 
https_proxy=https://myproxy.example.com</codeblock></li>
        <li>After editing the file, restart the Apache service:
          <codeblock>sudo service apache2 restart</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
