<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4165">
<title>HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Administrators Guide</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Admin_Guide/carrier-grade-admin-guide.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/old/--></p>
<p>Use the following links for information on administrative tasks you can perform for the HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade:</p>
<section id="managing-your-hp-helion-openstack-carrier-grade-cloud"> <title>Managing Your HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade Cloud</title>
<p>For information on the day-to-day administrative tasks you can perform in the HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.managing.dita" >Managing Your Cloud</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="configure-block-storage-by-either-deploying-vsa-or-using-hp-3par-array"> <title>Configure Block Storage by either deploying VSA or using HPE 3Par Array</title>
<p>Use one of the following methods to add block storage to your HPE Helion OpenStack(R) cloud:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Configure HPE StoreVirtual VSA</p>

<p>HPE StoreVirtual VSA Software is a Virtual Storage Appliance that provides the complete array functionality on top of Linux KVM environment without an external array hardware.</p>

<p>For instructions, see the Configuring HPE StoreVirtual VSA for Block Storage document.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure an HPE 3Par storage array</p>

<p>An optional HPE 3Par storage array that can be used to provide high performance Cinder block storage</p>

<p>For instructions, see the HPE StoreServ (3PAR) Support document.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="configure-a-swift-scale-out-cluster"> <title>Configure a Swift Scale-Out cluster</title>
<p>An optional Swift Scale-Out cluster instance of between two and twelve servers that is used for production cloud Object storage use (Scale-Out Swift extends the Starter Swift Cluster enabling greater capacity while maintaining any initial data present in Starter Swift).</p>
<p>HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade includes integral, built-in support for Scale-out Object Storage (Swift) to the cloud. The HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade cloud deployment includes automatic creation of a Swift cluster and starter nodes. It also enables SSL automatically to secure the data transmission.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-scale-out-swift.dita" >Object Storage (Swift) Service Overview</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="migrating-virtual-machines"> <title>Migrating Virtual Machines</title>
<p>Live migration occurs when a virtual machine is transferred to execute on a different compute node with minimal disruption of the guest applications. This can happen automatically, or upon request by the system administrator.</p>
<p>There are two migration methods:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Cold migration. During a cold migration, the instance is shut down for a period of time to be moved to another hypervisor. For specific steps, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.cold.migrate.dita" >Cold Migrate an Instance</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Live migration. During a live migration, the instance is kept running during the migration, requiring almost no downtime. For specific steps, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.migrate.dita" >Live Migration of Virtual Machines</xref>.</p>

<p>For more information on live migration, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.live.migrate.dita" >Live Migration of Virtual Machines</xref>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="scaling-virtual-machine-resources"> <title>Scaling Virtual Machine Resources</title>
<p>You can scale the resources of individual instances up or down. Currently, the CPU resources for an instance are scalable.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Instances/carrier-grade.dashboard.instances.scaling.dita" >Scaling Virtual Machine Resources</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="virtual-machines-and-carrier-grade-availability"> <title>Virtual Machines and Carrier-Grade Availability</title>
<p>The Wind River Linux servers in HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade provide a health monitoring mechanism that can be used to implement and support the deployment of guest applications in Carrier-Grade High Availability (HA) mode.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/MiscTasks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-ha.dita" >Virtual Machines and Carrier-Grade Availability</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="managing-stacks"> <title>Managing Stacks</title>
<p>You can create and manage collections of resources, or services (also known as stacks), using the Orchestration (Heat) service.</p>
<p>With Orchestration, you can define a service configuration in a template file, and then apply the template to create or modify the service resources and connections.</p>
<p>The Orchestration layer includes life-cycle management features to simplify the addition, modification, and deletion of services.</p>
<p>The Wind River Linux servers include extensions for enhanced scope and reliability.</p>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks.dita" > Using Stacks, Templates, and Parameters</xref>.</p>
<!-- Hide for alpha
- [Troubleshooting](/helion/openstack/carrier/services/troubleshooting/)

## Administering the HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade using Helion Lifecycle Management

Using HLM, you can install and upgrade HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade and do....

For information on the administrative tasks you can perform using HLM, see [Using Helion Lifecycle Management](/helion/openstack/carrier/admin/hlm/).

## Administering HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade

For information on the administrative tasks you can perform in the HPE Helion OpenStack(R) region, see [Administering the HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Region](/helion/openstack/carrier/admin/helion/)



## Administering HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)

Using DCN, you can install and upgrade HPE Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade and do...

For information on the administrative tasks you can perform using DCN, see [Administering HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)](/helion/openstack/carrier/admin/dcn/).

## Administering the Wind River Linux Region

For information on the administrative tasks you can perform in the WindRiver region, see [Administering the WindRiver Region](/helion/openstack/carrier/admin/wr/)

-->
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4165/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
