<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4640">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1: Managing Security Groups</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Security/1.1commercial.dashboard.security.groups.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/security/groups/--></p>
<p>You can <xref type="section" href="#topic4640/creategroups">create your own security groups</xref> or you can <xref type="section" href="#topic4640/editgroups">edit the rules in an existing group</xref> to suit your needs.</p>
<section id="about-security-groups-and-rules"> <title>About Security Groups and Rules</title>
<p>Access to your instances is controlled by security groups which are a collection of inbound (ingress) and outbound (egress) rules about which sources, protocols and ports a server can send/receive traffic from. No traffic can be received by a server unless a security group rule explicitly allows it.</p>
<p>A default security group is created automatically that contains six rules:</p>
<ul>
<li>Ingress IPv4 TCP Port 22: this is opening up port 22 for SSH</li>
<li>Egress IPv4 Any: this is a blanket rule to open up all outgoing traffic</li>
<li>Egress IPv6 Any: this is a blanket rule to open up all outgoing traffic</li>
<li>Ingress ICMP: this is a blanket rule that opens up all inbound ICMP traffic</li>
<li>Ingress IPv4 Any default: this is adding the "default" group to itself</li>
<li>Ingress IPv6 Any default: this is adding the "default" group to itself</li>
</ul>
<p>You can create your own security groups or you can change the default group to suit your needs.</p>
</section>
<section id="cidr"> <title>Using CIDR to Control Traffic</title>
<p>Understanding how the CIDR field works is important to understanding how to control the access to your instances. If you use a CIDR of 0.0.0.0/0 then that is allowing traffic over the port you specified for all IP addresses. Here is how you can restrict access to a specific IP address:</p>
<ul>
<li>0.0.0.0/0 - This would allow traffic across all IP addresses</li>
<li>15.185.1.1/0 - This would still allow traffic across all IP addresses</li>
<li>15.185.1.1/8 - This would restrict traffic to IP addresses starting with 15.x.x.x</li>
<li>15.185.1.1/16 - This would restrict traffic to IP addresses starting with 15.185.x.x</li>
<li>15.185.1.1/24 - This would restrict traffic to IP addresses starting with 15.185.1.x</li>
<li>15.185.1.1/32 - This would restrict traffic to a single host with IP address 15.185.1.1</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="creategroups"> <title>Create a security group</title>
<p>To create a security group, do the following:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Access &amp; Security</b> link on the <b>Project</b> dashboard <b>Compute</b> panel.</p>

<p>The Access &amp; Security page is displayed with four tabs, <b>Security Groups</b>, <b>Key Pairs</b>, <b>Floating IPs</b>, and <b>API Access</b>. By default, <b>Security Groups</b> is the active tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Security Groups</b> tab to activate it.</p>

<p>The list of security groups is displayed in a table.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Security Group</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Create Security Group</b> screen, enter a name for the group and, optionally, enter a description.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>6.. Click <b>Create Security Group</b>.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>The new group is created with two rules that allow all traffic from an instance associated to the group.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<ol>
<li>You can use the following procedure to add ingress and egress rules to the security group as needed.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="editgroups"> <title>Create security group rules</title>
<p>To create security group rules, do the following:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Access &amp; Security</b> link on the <b>Project</b> dashboard <b>Compute</b> panel.</p>

<p>The Access &amp; Security page is displayed with four tabs, <b>Security Groups</b>, <b>Key Pairs</b>, <b>Floating IPs</b>, and <b>API Access</b>. By default, <b>Security Groups</b> is the active tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Security Groups</b> tab to activate it.</p>

<p>The list of security groups is displayed in a table.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the security group for which you want to add rules, click <b>Manage Rules</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Add Rule</b> screen, use the fields to create a security rule:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<b>Rule</b> - Choose the type of rule you want to create.</li>
<li>
<b>Direction</b> - Ingress (inbound rule) or Egress (outbound rule).</li>
<li>
<b>Open Port</b> - Choose either Port or Port Range.</li>
<li>
<b>Port</b> - if you chose this option, enter the port number.</li>
<li>
<b>Port Range</b> - If you chose this option, enter your port range.</li>
<li>
<b>Remote</b> - Select either <b>CIDR</b> to specify an IP range or <b>Security Group</b> to allow a specific security group.</li>
<li>
<b>CIDR</b> - If you chose this option, enter an IP range. For more information, see <xref type="section" href="#topic4640/cidr">Using CIDR to Control Traffic</xref>.</li>
<li>
<b>Security Group</b> - if you chose this option, select the security group to allow access to and the IP version.
Selecting a security group as the source will allow any other instance in that security group access to any other instance via this rule.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Add</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The security rule is added to the security group.</p>
<p>Once you make a change to the security group rules and save the change, the change you made will immediately go into effect for all instances using that security group.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4640"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
