<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_vln_2xy_ht">
  <title>3PAR Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the configuration of HP 3PAR StoreServ Fibre Channel (FC) or iSCSI
      storage devices as a Cinder backend. Once the backend is configured you can create and
      validate the volume.</p>
    <section>
      <title id="preq">Prerequisite</title>
      <p>
        <ul id="ul_pfl_bbz_ht">
          <li>HP Helion Cloud must be successfully deployed. It should be up and running.</li>
          <li>3PAR should available in cloud management network or routed to cloud management
            network with FC and  iSCSI ports configured.</li>
          <li>3PAR management IP and iSCSI port IP's must have connectivity from controller and
            compute nodes.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="configure-3par-fc">
      <title>Configure 3PAR FC as Cinder backend</title>
      <p>You must modify <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to configure FC driver details.</p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to configure 3PAR FC as Cinder backend:<ol id="ol_dj2_qcz_ht">
          <li>Login to deployer node.</li>
          <li>Change the directory as shown below:<codeblock>cd ~/helion</codeblock></li>
          <li>Edit <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file at
              <codeph>hos/ansible/roles/_CND-CMN/templates/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to add 3PAR FC
            data as follows:<codeblock>enabled_backends=3par_FC</codeblock><note>Append this change
              with the exiting backend, if you have already added VSA as backend.</note></li>
          <li>Copy 3PAR FC section , uncomment it, and modify the values in the
              <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file as shown in the following
              example:<codeblock>[3par_FC]
hp3par_api_url=https://10.1.192.10:8080/api/v1
hp3par_username=helionadmin
hp3par_password=helion
hp3par_cpg=FC_r5,FC_r1
san_ip=10.1.192.10
san_login=helionadmin
san_password=helion
volume_driver=cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_3par_fc.HP3PARFCDriver
volume_backend_name=3par_FC</codeblock><note>
              Please enter the values which are specific to your environment. </note></li>
          <li>Commit your configuration to a <xref href="../../using_git.dita#topic_u3v_1yz_ct"
              >local
              repository</xref>:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "&lt;commit message>"</codeblock><note>
              Enter your commit message &lt;commit message></note></li>
          <li>Run the configuration
            processor:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Change the directory to <codeph>~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible</codeph> and run
            the following command to create a deployment
            directory.<codeblock><codeph>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeph></codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <p id="run-ceph-client-package"><b>Run Cinder Reconfigure Packages</b></p>
    <p>Execute the following command to configure 3PAR FC. </p>
    <p>
      <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
    </p>
    <section>
      <title>Configure 3PAR iSCSI as Cinder backend</title>
      <p>You must modify  <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to configure iSCSI details.</p>
      <p>
        <ol>
          <li>Login to deployer node.</li>
          <li>Change the directory as shown below:<codeblock>cd ~/helion</codeblock></li>
          <li>Edit <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file at
              <codeph>hos/ansible/roles/_CND-CMN/templates/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> to enable 3PAR FC
            as follows:<codeblock>enabled_backends=3par_iSCSI</codeblock><note>Append this change
              with the exiting backend, if you have already added VSA as backend.</note></li>
          <li>Copy 3PAR iSCSI section , uncomment it, and modify the values in the
              <codeph>cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file as shown in the following
              example:<codeblock>[3par_iSCSI]
hp3par_api_url=https://10.1.192.10:8080/api/v1
hp3par_username=helionadmin
hp3par_password=helion
hp3par_cpg=FC_r1
san_ip=10.1.192.10
san_login=helionadmin
san_password=helion
volume_driver=cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_3par_iscsi.HP3PARISCSIDriver
volume_backend_name=3par_iSCSI
iscsi_ip_address=172.32.0.9
hp3par_iscsi_chap_enabled=true</codeblock><note>
              Please enter the values which are specific to your environment. </note></li>
          <li>Execute the steps (<b>5 -7</b>) mentioned in <xref
              href="#topic_vln_2xy_ht/configure-3par-fc" format="dita">Configure 3PAR FC as Cinder
              backend </xref> and  <xref href="#topic_vln_2xy_ht/run-ceph-client-package"
              format="dita">Run Cinder Reconfigure Packages</xref> as mentioned above.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Create Volume to Verify the Configuration of 3PAR iSCSI and FC</title>
      <p>You must create a volume to verify the configuration of 3PAR iSCSI and FC. Once you are
        able to create the volume then delete the created volume.</p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to create a volume:
        &lt;<?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?>Need to modify the
          following<?oxy_custom_end?>><ol id="ol_ljx_211_3t">
          <li>Login to Horizon dashboard. </li>
          <li>Create volume type and associate a extra-spec for the volume type with the defined
            volume_backend_name in the cinder.conf.</li>
          <li>Create a test volume from a user account and verify that the volume is successfully
            created in the "available" state</li>
          <li>Delete the test volume.</li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
