<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1853">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Managing project quotas</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Projects/1.1commercial.dashboard.projects.quotas.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/projects/quotas/--></p>
<p>Quotas are operational limits enforced on each project.</p>
<p>To prevent system capacities from being exhausted without notification, you can set up quotas.</p>
<p>For example, the number of gigabytes allowed per project can be controlled to make sure that a single project does not consume all of the disk space.</p>
<section id="quotamod"> <title>Modify a quotas</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Identity</b> dashboard, then the <b>Projects</b> panel.</li>
<li>For the project you want to modify, click <b>Edit Project</b>then <b>Modify Quotas</b>.</li>
<li>In the <b>Edit Project</b> screen, click the <b>Quota</b> tab (should be active).</li>
<li>Edit and of the following fields:<ul>
            <li>Metadata Items - Enter the maximum number of metadata items allowed for the
              project.</li>
            <li>VCPUs - Enter the maximum number of instance cores allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>Instances - Enter the maximum number of instances allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>Injected Files - Enter the maximum number of injected files allowed for the
              project.</li>
            <li>Injected File Content Bytes - Enter the maximum number of content bytes allowed per
              injected file for the project.</li>
            <li>Volumes - Enter the maximum number of volumes allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>Volume Snapshots - Enter the maximum number of volume snapshots allowed for the
              project.</li>
            <li>Total Size of Volumes and Snapshots- Enter the maximum total size for all volumes
              and snapshots allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>RAM - Enter the maximum megabytes of instance RAM allowed for the project.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Save</b>.<p>A message is displayed on successful modification.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
