<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1688">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating and Deleting Users</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Users/1.1commercial.dashboard.users.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/users/create/--></p>
<p>As an admin, you can <xref type="section" href="#topic1688/createuser">create</xref> and <xref type="section" href="#topic1688/deleteuser">delete</xref> users.</p>
<section id="createuser"> <title>Create a user</title>
<p>To create a user:</p>
<p>
  <b>Note:</b> At least <xref href="CGH-2-User-Identity-projects-create.dita#topic2004">one project must
    exist</xref> before you
        can create users.</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Identity</b> dashboard, then the <b>Users</b> panel.</li>
<li>In the <b>Users</b> table, click <b>Create User</b>.</li>
<li>In the <b>Create User</b> screen, enter the following:<ul>
            <li><b>User Name</b> - Enter a name for the user. The user will need this name to log
              in.</li>
            <li><b>Email</b> - Enter an email associated with this user.</li>
            <li><b>Password</b> - Enter a password for the user. The user will need the password to
              log in.</li>
            <li><b>Confirm Password</b> - Re-enter the password to confirm.</li>
            <li><b>Primary Project</b> - Select a primary project for the user. The primary project
              is simply the first project the user is associated with.</li>
            <li><b>Role</b> - Select a role for the user. The role determines many of the tasks that
              the user can perform.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Create User</b>.<p>The user is created and appears in the user list.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deleteuser"> <title>Delete a user</title>
<p>To delete a user:</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Identity</b> dashboard, then the <b>Users</b> panel.</li>
<li>In the <b>Users</b> table, for the user you want to deleite, click <b>Edit User</b> then
            <b>Delete User</b>.</li>
<li>In the confirmation dialog that appears, click <b>Delete User</b>.<p>The user is removed and no
            longer available in the domain.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
