<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2004">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating and Deleting Projects</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Projects/1.1commercial.dashboard.projects.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/projects/creating/--></p>
<p>As an admin user can <xref href="../Network/CGH-2-User-network-create.dita#topic3372">create</xref> and <xref
        href="../Network/CGH-2-User-network-create.dita#topic3372">delete</xref> networks as needed..</p>
<section id="projectcreate"> <title>Create a project</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Identity</b> dashboard, then the <b>Projects</b> panel.</li>
<li>In the <b>Projects</b> table, click <b>Create Project</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Project Info</b> tab of the <b>Create Project</b> screen:<p>
            <ol id="ol_fsy_msy_3t">
              <li>Enter a unique name for the project. </li>
              <li>Enter an identifying description for the project. </li>
              <li>Leave <b>Enabled</b> selected to create an active project or clear the option to
                create a non-active project</li>
            </ol>
          </p></li>
<li>Click the <b>Project Members</b> tab.</li>
<li>On the <b>Project Members</b> tab select the users who can access the project by clicking the
            <b>+</b> icon for each user.</li>
<li>Click the <b>Quotas</b> tab.</li>
<li>Optionally, specify operational quotas for the project. Metadata Items - Enter the maximum
          number of metadata items allowed per instance.<ul>
            <li>VCPUs Enter the maximum number of instance cores allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>Instances Enter the maximum number of instances allowed for the project.</li>
            <li>Injected Files Enter the maximum number of injected files allowed for the
              project.</li>
            <li>Injected File Content Bytes Enter the maximum number of content bytes allowed per
              injected file.</li>
            <li>RAM Enter the maximum megabytes of instance RAM allowed for the project.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Create Project</b>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="projectdel"> <title>Delete a project</title>
<p>As an admin, you can delete projects. Compute instances associated with a project will not be deleted.</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Identity</b> dashboard, then the <b>Projects</b> panel.</li>
        <li>In the <b>Projects</b> table, for the project you want to delete, click <b>Edit
            Project</b> then <b>Delete Project</b>.</li>
<li>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Project</b>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
