<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1321">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Connecting a Network to a Router</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Routers/1.1commercial.dashboard.router.connect.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/router/connect/--></p>
<p>A network connects to the router through an interface. You must create an interface between the network and router to remotely connect to the network and any instances on that network through the router.</p>
<p>When you create a new router, the router is not associated to any subnet. You can optionally connect the router to an internal network.</p>
<section id="connect-a-network-to-the-router"> <title>Connect a network to the router</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Based on whether you are <xref
                        href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-how-works.dita#topic6108">working on
                        a project or the domain</xref>:<ul id="ul_bz4_k3t_jt">
                        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
                                <b>Routers</b> tab. </li>
                        <li>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>Network</b> panel, then
                            the <b>Routers</b> tab. </li>
                    </ul><p>The available router(s) appear.</p></li>
<li>Click the name of the router you want to connect to the network.</li>
<li>On the <b>Router Details</b> tab, click <b>Add interface</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Add Interface</b> screen:<ul>
            <li>Select a subnet associated with the network you want to connect with from the
                <b>Select</b> list.</li>
            <li>Optionally, specify an IP address for the interface that is in the IP range.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Add Interface</b>
          <p>The network is connected to the router.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
