<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2811">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Developing in Java</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
  <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Whether you're deploying an application to the HPE Helion Development Platform, a Cloud Foundry-based Platform as a Service (PaaS), or writing applications that take advantage of HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> to manage infrastructure or software services, tools to enable successful development are available in Java.</p>
  <p>Deployable <xref href="../../../../devplatform.appdev.dita#topic2457/java" type="section">sample applications</xref> are available in this language.</p>
<section id="using-jdbc"> <title>Using JDBC</title>
<p>It is possible to access the database services using the standard JDBC
API:</p>
<codeblock>String helion_services = System.getenv("VCAP_SERVICES");
String hostname = NULL_STRING;
String dbname = NULL_STRING;
String user = NULL_STRING;
String password = NULL_STRING;
String port = NULL_STRING;

if (helion_services != null &amp;&amp; helion_services.length() &gt; 0) {
  try
  {
    JsonRootNode root = new JdomParser().parse(helion_services);

    JsonNode credentials = root.getNode("mysql");

    dbname = credentials.getStringValue("name");
    hostname = credentials.getStringValue("hostname");
    user = credentials.getStringValue("user");
    password = credentials.getStringValue("password");
    port = credentials.getNumberValue("port");

    String dbUrl = "jdbc:mysql://" + hostname + ":" + port + "/" + dbname;

    Class.forName("com.mysql.jdbc.Driver");
    Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(dbUrl, user, password);
    return connection;

  }
  catch (Exception e)
  {
    throw new SQLException(e);
  }
}</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="example"> <title>Example</title>
<p>The <xref href="../../../../workbook/database/database.java.dita" >Java database sample</xref> sample
demonstrates a simple Java application using a MySQL service.</p>
</section>
<section id="catalina-opts"> <title>CATALINA_OPTS</title>
<p>The CATALINA_OPTS environment variable can be set in the
<codeph>env:</codeph> block of manifest.yml (or set via the
Management Console) to override Application Lifecycle Service defaults.</p>
      <note type="restriction"> CATALINA_OPTS settings cannot be modified without restaging. Applications must be
        re-pushed with new settings to apply changes.</note>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service sets the CATALINA_OPTS environment variable for applications using
        Tomcat automatically, based on the <codeph>memory:</codeph> value specified for application
        instances. Application Lifecycle Service will always leave at least 64MB for the heap, but
        will otherwise reserves up to 96MB for overhead, that is for the code of the JVM itself, for
        additional libraries loaded via JNI, for additional processes to run in the background, and
        for the JVM permanent pool.</p>
<p>This means, for example, a 128MB application will end up with 64MB for
the heap and 64MB for overhead, a 160MB application will still have 64MB
for the heap but 96MB for overhead, and a 512MB application will get a
416MB heap and allow 96MB for overhead.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
