<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5845">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Developing In PHP</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
  <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Whether you're deploying an application to the HPE Helion Development Platform, a
Cloud Foundry based Platform as a Service (PaaS), or writing applications that take
advantage of HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> to manage infrastructure or software services, tools
to enable successful development are available in PHP.</p>
  <p>Deployable <xref href="../../../../devplatform.appdev.dita#topic2457/PHP">sample
        applications</xref> are available in this language.</p>
<section id="application-lifecycle-services"> <title>Application Lifecycle Services</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) provides a means to execute PHP applications on a managed platform, controlling application lifecycle through a PaaS tier. Deploying
applications to this platform is as easy as adding details to a YAML configuration file and using
a console application to push the application to ALS.
At its simplest form, the configuration file <i>manifest.yml</i>, which is located at the root of a project, 
would look like:</p>
<codeblock>name: php-web-app
framework:
    type: php</codeblock>
<p>This will set the ALS framework type for a PHP web application.</p>
<p>To create a worker non-http application set the web process to <b>null</b> (~) and specify
the command to <b>run</b>. For example:</p>
<codeblock>name: php-app
framework: php
command:php worker.php
processes: 
   web: ~</codeblock>
<p>Management of the deployed application and its services happens through a web application or
a console application. To learn more see the <xref href="../manifestyml.dita" >manifest.yml</xref> reference.</p>
</section>
<section id="deployment"> <title>Deployment</title>
<p>You will need at least two files to deploy a PHP app on Application Lifecycle Service:
<i>index.php</i>, and <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
<p>The <i>manifest.yml</i> must specify <b>php</b> as the framework type:</p>
<codeblock>framework:
type: php</codeblock>
<p>For more information, see the <xref href="../manifestyml.dita" >manifest.yml</xref> reference.</p>
</section>
<section id="application-url"> <title>Application URL</title>
<p>Some applications require the user to specify the APP_URL. Below is an
example on how to obtain the correct urls:</p>
<codeblock>$appinfo = getenv("VCAP_APPLICATION");
$appinfo_json = json_decode($appinfo,true);
$admin = $appinfo_json['uris'][0];</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="worker-applications"> <title>Worker Applications</title>
<p>Non-HTTP apps that run as an Application Lifecycle Service application under the control of
the Health Manager.</p>
<p>To deploy worker applications, you need to use the
  <xref href="../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/command" type="section"   >
<i>command</i>
</xref> key and set the
  <xref href="../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/web" type="section"   >
<i>processes: web</i>
</xref>
key to Null ("\~").</p>
</section>
<section id="example"> <title>Example</title>
<codeblock>name: php-app
framework: php
command: php worker.php
processes:
  web: ~</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="database-services"> <title>Database Services</title>
</section>
<section id="database-url"> <title>
  DATABASE_URL
</title>
<p>Authentication details for your configured database services can be
found in the <b>$_SERVER</b> variable, under 
<b>DATABASE_URL</b>. Here is a sample for retrieving the correct credentials:</p>
<codeblock>  &lt;?php
    $url_parts = parse_url($_SERVER['DATABASE_URL']);
    $db_name = substr( $url_parts['path'], 1 );
    $db_connection_string = $url_parts['host'] . ':' . $url_parts['port'];

    // ** MySQL settings from resource descriptor ** //
    echo $db_name;
    echo $url_parts['user'];
    echo $url_parts['pass'];
    echo $url_parts['host'];
    echo $url_parts['port'];
?&gt;</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="vcap-services"> <title>
  VCAP_SERVICES
</title>
<codeblock>  &lt;?php
    $services = getenv("VCAP_SERVICES");
    $services_json = json_decode($services,true);
    $mysql_config = $services_json["mysql"][0]["credentials"];

    // ** MySQL settings from resource descriptor ** //
    echo $mysql_config["name"];
    echo $mysql_config["user"];
    echo $mysql_config["password"];
    echo $mysql_config["hostname"];
    echo $mysql_config["port"];
    );
?&gt;</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="php-ini"> <title>PHP.ini</title>
<p>Additional PHP ini files will be loaded from the <codeph>$HELION_APP_ROOT/apache/php/</codeph> directory.</p>
</section>
<section id="document-root-access"> <title>Document Root Access</title>
<p>If your document root (the location of the main <i>index.php</i> file) is the
main application directory, the information stored in 
<i>manifest.yml</i> is exposed to the browser.</p>
<p>To prevent exposing this information, you can use an <i>.htaccess</i> file in
the document root directory with the following rule:</p>
<codeblock>&lt;filesmatch "^(manifest)\.yml$"&gt;
  order allow,deny
  deny from all
&lt;/filesmatch&gt;</codeblock>
<p>Alternatively, move your application into a subdirectory (e.g. move
<i>index.php</i> to <i>www/index.php</i>) and explicitly set your document-root in
<i>manifest.yml</i>:</p>
<codeblock>framework:
document-root: www</codeblock>
<p>Using the <i>.htaccess</i> file will generate an "HTTP 403 Forbidden" error
if a user tries to access the denied files. Changing the document-root
will generate an "HTTP 404 Not Found" error instead.</p>
<p>These techniques can be use to hide other files in your application
source tree which you do not want exposed to end users.</p>
</section>
<section id="server-name-server-port"> <title>SERVER_NAME &amp; SERVER_PORT</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service serves web applications port 80 and/or 443 at the router, but
within the application container Apache will be running on a different
port. PHP will report this internal IP address and port in the
SERVER_ADDR and SERVER_PORT Apache environment variables respectively.</p>
<p>If your application makes use of these variables, you may need to adjust
them by using an <xref href="http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/howto/htaccess.html" scope="external" format="html" >.htaccess file</xref> to set
one or more
<xref href="http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/mod/mod_rewrite.html#rewriterule" type="section"  format="html" >RewriteRule</xref>
directives to correct the server name or port in URLs.</p>
</section>
<section id="persistent-sessions-php"> <title>Persistent Sessions (PHP)</title>
<p>One of the issues with managing a PHP application running multiple
instances is dealing with user sessions.</p>
  <p>If your application uses a <xref href="../../services/filesystem.dita"><i>shared filesystem
            service</i></xref>, you can store user sessions there. The following <i>manifest.yml</i>
        snippet creates a persistent filesystem service, creates a directory for sessions, and
        writes a PHP config file to set the path to the session directory:</p>
<codeblock>  services:
  ${name}-fs: filesystem
hooks:
  post-staging:
  - mkdir -p "$HELION_FILESYSTEM"/sessions
  - echo "session.save_path = $HELION_FILESYSTEM/sessions" &gt; "$HELION_APP_ROOT"/apache/php/sessions.ini</codeblock>
<p>For better performance, use a <xref href="../../services/memcached.dita">
<i>Memcached</i>
</xref> service for
session storage instead:</p>
<codeblock>  services:
  ${name}-cache: memcached
hooks:
  post-staging:
  - echo "session.save_handler = memcached" &gt; "$HELION_APP_ROOT"/apache/php/sessions.ini
  - echo "session.save_path = $MEMCACHED_URL" &gt;&gt; "HELIONO_APP_ROOT"/apache/php/sessions.ini</codeblock>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
