<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5273">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Developing In Ruby</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Whether you're deploying an application to the HPE Helion Development Platform, a
Cloud Foundry based Platform as a Service (PaaS), or writing applications that take
advantage of HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> to manage infrastructure or software services, tools
to enable successful development are available in Ruby.</p>
<section id="application-lifecycle-services"> <title>Application Lifecycle Services</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Services (ALS), a cloud foundry based Platform as a Service,
provides a means to execute ruby applications on a managed platform. Deploying applications to the platform is as simple as adding configuration to a YAML configuration file and using a console application to push the application to ALS.
At its simplest form the configuration file, <i>manifest.yml</i>, at the root of a project would look like:</p>
<codeblock>name: ruby-web-app
framework:
    type: ruby20&lt;/pre&gt;</codeblock>
<p>This will tell ALS to have a Ruby web application.
To create a worker non-http application set the web process to null (~) and specify
the command to run. For example,</p>
<codeblock>name: ruby-app
framework:
  type: rails3
  runtime: ruby19
command: ruby worker.rb
processes:
  web: ~</codeblock>
<p>Management of the deployed application and its services happens through a web application or a console application.
To learn more see:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="ruby.dita" >Working with applications in Ruby</xref>
</li>
<li>The <xref href="../manifestyml.dita" >manifest.yml</xref> reference.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="hp-helion-sdk"> <title>HPE Helion SDK</title>
  <p>Ruby applications can communicate directly with the <xref href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#publiccloud/api.html" format="html" >Helion APIs</xref> through a REST client or use the SDK. The SDK is designed to have a simple well documented API to simplify working with the services.
To understand how it works, here is an example of writing and reading from object storage:</p>
<codeblock>def credentials_hash
  {
    :provider =&gt; :openstack,
    :openstack_auth_url =&gt; ENV['OS_AUTH_URL'],
    :openstack_username =&gt; ENV['OS_USER'],
    :openstack_api_key =&gt; ENV['OS_API_KEY'],
    :openstack_tenant =&gt;  ENV['OS_TENANT'],
    :openstack_region =&gt; ENV['OS_REGION']
  }
end

storage = Fog::Storage.new(credentials_hash)

#list directories
storage.directories

#create a directory
storage.directories.create(:key =&gt; "Example")

#create an object
dir = storage.directories.get("Example")
dir.files.create(:key =&gt; "sample.txt", :body =&gt; File.open("/path/to/sample.txt"))

#get the same object out
dir = conn.directories.get("Example")
file = dir.files.get("sample.txt")
file.key   # =&gt; sample.txt
file.content_type # =&gt; text/plain</codeblock>
<p>
        <note> See <xref href="../buildpack.dita">Buildpacks</xref> for an alternative way to
          deploy Ruby on Rails applications.</note>
      </p>
</section>
<section id="using-ruby-2-0"> <title>Using Ruby 2.0</title>
<p>The <i>manifest.yml</i> file must specify the Ruby runtime version and Rails as the
framework type:</p>
<codeblock>framework:
  runtime: ruby20</codeblock>
<p>Default Ruby version is Ruby 1.9</p>
</section>
<section id="known-issues"> <title>Known Issues</title>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Rmagick gem currently not supported.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>PostgreSQL Gem (pg) version must be pinned to 0.12.2 (if used):</p>

<codeblock>gem 'pg', '0.12.2'</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Must specify Rake Gem immediately before the line loading rails.
This happens because when Rails loads, it finds version 0.9.2 of
Rake, and that becomes the only version of Rake in the process.
Later code wants version 0.9.2.2, and fails:</p>

<codeblock>gem 'rake', '0.9.2.2'
gem 'rails'</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>For Ruby 1.9, Cloud Foundry requires a tweak to the jquery-rails gem.</p>

<codeblock>gem 'cloudfoundry-jquery-rails'</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="ruby-on-rails-3-1"> <title>Ruby on Rails 3.1+</title>
<p>To get the asset pipeline working on Application Lifecycle Service, precompile your assets in
your development environment, which compiles them into public/assets:</p>
<codeblock>bundle exec rake assets:precompile</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="gems-and-libraries"> <title>Gems and Libraries</title>
<p>A <i>Gemfile</i> must be included in your app that lists all required gems.
Run:</p>
<codeblock>bundle install
bundle package</codeblock>
<p>any time you modify the <i>Gemfile</i> and prior to pushing an app to
Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<p>If VCAP sees a Gemfile.lock in the application, it will ensure the
needed gems are packaged, and set the BUNDLE_PATH environment variable
to point at them.</p>
</section>
<section id="unsupported-gemfile-features"> <title>Unsupported <i>Gemfile</i> features</title>
<ol>
<li>git urls or branch dependencies</li>
<li>gem :path =&gt; "some/path"</li>
<li>platform-conditional gems</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="database-services"> <title>Database Services</title>
<p>Cloud Foundry supports database auto-reconfiguration for Rails
applications.</p>
</section>
<section id="worker-applications"> <title>Worker Applications</title>
<p>Non-HTTP apps that run as an Application Lifecycle Service application under the control of
the Health Manager.</p>
<p>To deploy worker applications, you need to use the
  <xref href="../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/command" type="section" >
<i>command</i>
</xref> key and set the
  <xref href="../manifestyml.dita#topic20922/web" type="section"   >
<i>processes: web</i>
</xref>
key to Null ("\~").</p>
</section>
<section id="example"> <title>Example</title>
<codeblock>name: ruby-app
framework:
  type: rails3
  runtime: ruby19
command: ruby worker.rb
processes:
  web: ~</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="general-guidelines"> <title>General Guidelines</title>
</section>
<section id="app-web-servers"> <title>App/Web Servers</title>
<p>For the best performance, <xref href="https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ruby#webserver" type="section"  format="html" >using the Thin Ruby webserver</xref> is recommended.
Include <codeph>gem 'thin'</codeph> in your <i>Gemfile</i>.</p>
</section>
<section id="bundler"> <title>Bundler</title>
<p>You need Bundler and Rails installed locally. This can be done via:</p>
<codeblock>sudo gem install rails bundler --no-ri --no-rdoc</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="running-rake-commands"> <title>Running rake commands</title>
<p>Generally, <codeph>bundle exec</codeph> must be used when running any commands that are installed through Gemfile/bundler.</p>
<p>To run <codeph>rake stats</codeph>, for instance, use the <codeph>helion run</codeph> command:</p>
<codeblock>helion run *appname* bundle exec rake stats</codeblock>
  <p>See the <xref href="../../reference/client-ref.dita">ALS Command Reference</xref> for details on the use of <codeph>helion run</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="references"> <title>References</title>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="http://blog.cloudfoundry.com/2012/03/12/using-cloud-foundry-services-with-ruby-part-1-auto-reconfiguration/" scope="external" format="html" >Auto-Reconfiguration Part
I</xref>:
Cloud Foundry Blog.</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://blog.cloudfoundry.com/2012/03/15/using-cloud-foundry-services-with-ruby-part-2-run-time-support-for-ruby-applications" scope="external" format="html" >Auto-Reconfiguration Part
II</xref>:
Cloud Foundry Blog.</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/buildpacks/ruby/ruby-tips.html" scope="external" format="html" >Working with Ruby, Rails and Sinatra: Things to
know</xref>:
Cloud Foundry Documentation.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
