<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3039">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Add a Disk to a Scale-out Object Ring</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Keshava HP, Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-add-disk-scale-out-object-ring.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/services/swift/deployment/add-disk-scale-out/--></p>
<p>Perform the following procedure to add a disk to a scale-out object ring.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3039/prer">Prerequisite</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3039/adding-Swift-disks-to-a-ring">Add disks to the ring</xref>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="prer"> <title>Prerequisite</title>
<ul>
<li>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> cloud is successfully deployed.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><i>(Starter Object Storage (Swift) nodes are functional by default as they are part of cloud deployment.)</i>
</li>
<li>Scale-out object-ring:1 has been deployed.</li>
<li>All of the rings generated <b>must</b> be preserved, preferably at more than one location. Swift needs these rings to be consistent across all nodes.</li>
<li>Take a backup of the rings before any operation.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="adding-Swift-disks-to-a-ring"> <title>Add Disks to a Scale-out Ring</title>
<p>Perform the following steps to add disk to a Swift ring:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to the undercloud from seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;Undercloud IP address&gt; 
# sudo -i
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change the directory to ring builder.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># cd /root/ring-building
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>List the disks on a node.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-disks -n &lt;Object nodes IP address&gt; 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Format a given disk.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos format-disks -n &lt;Object nodes IP address&gt; -d &lt;disk&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: You can format all the disks with a single command (-d --all).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>List the files in the ring building directory and identify the<codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add a formatted disk to object-1 ring.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos add-disk-to-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -i &lt;Object nodes IP address&gt; -p &lt;port&gt; -d &lt;disk label&gt; -w &lt;weight&gt; -r &lt;region&gt; -z &lt;zone&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Recommendation</b>: 
Add drives gradually using a weighted approach to avoid degraded performance of the Swift cluster. The weight will gradually increase by 25% until it reaches 100%. The initial weight is 25.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Re-balance the object-1 ring.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos rebalance-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: You must wait for the time specified by <codeph>min_part_hours</codeph> before another re-balance succeeds.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>List all the Swift nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t all
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> file to all the nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/object-1.ring.gz -n &lt;Swift nodes IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> file to all the nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -n &lt;Swift nodes IP address&gt;  
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: The <codeph>.buldier</codeph> and <codeph>.ring.gz</codeph> files <b>must</b> be present in the Swift nodes.</p>

<p>You can also copy the ring files and the builder files to all the swift nodes using the following commands:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n all

# ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -n all
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Set the weight of the disks using the following command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos set-weight -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -s &lt;disk-id&gt; -w &lt;weight&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Repeat steps from <b>7-11</b> increasing the weight by 25 each time; set the weight to 50, 75, and finally 100 (w= 50, 75, 100) .</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3039"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
