<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic14614">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Deploying Additional Scale-out Object Storage (Swift) Nodes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Ranjan J, Keshava HP, Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/services/swift/deployment-scale-out/--></p>
<p>The scale-out object storage is realized by defining a new storage policy - storage-policy:1. Object-1 ring is associated with storage-policy:1. This ring is used to store end user data. Once the storage-policy:1 is created, it is the default policy and all of the containers would be on this policy unless otherwise specified. We recommend you to use at least <b>two</b> nodes to implement storage-policy:1. Also, you can extend the object storage by adding one or more nodes to object-ring:1 as per your requirement.</p>
<p>Perform the following steps to deploy scale-out object-ring:1</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/preq">Prerequisite</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/define-object-ring:1">Define the attributes of Object Ring-1</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/prepare-undercloudswift">Prepare the undercloud to manage Swift Clusters</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/deploying-scale-out-Swift-object-nodes">Deploy the Scale-out Object Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/verifying-deployed-swift-nodes">Verify the Deployed Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/preparing-disks-on-Swift-nodes">Prepare the Disks on the Deployed Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/creating-scale-out-object-ring">Create a New Scale-out Object Ring</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/copying-the-rings-to-all-Swift-nodes">Copy the New Ring(s) to All Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic14614/update-storage-scaleout-swift">Update the Storage Policy</xref> </li>
</ol>
<section id="preq"> <title>Prerequisites</title>
<p>A HP Helion OpenStack(R) cloud must be deployed. Functional Swift starter nodes are created as an integral part of cloud deployment.</p>
</section>
<section id="define-object-ring:1"> <title>Define the Ring Attributes of Object Ring-1</title>
<p>
<b>Caution</b>:Plan the following ring attributes before deployment of object-ring:1 because many attributes, such as <b>part power</b>, cannot be changed after the ring has been deployed.</p>
</section>
<section id="table-a"> <title>Table A</title>
<table>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Attributes</entry>
    <entry>
<ph>Definition</ph>

</entry>
    <entry>
<ph>Recommendation</ph>

</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Zone</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Defines single point of failure within your cluster. </entry>
    <entry>It is recommended to use a single zone with multiple servers. Having multiple servers (at least three) ensures that the replicas are distributed across servers, not all on one.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Replica Count</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Defines the number of copies of objects created.</entry>
    <entry>The recommended value is 3.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Part Power</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Defines the storage cluster capacity. Set the <varname>partition power</varname> value based on the total amount of storage you expect your entire ring to use.</entry>
    <entry>  The parameter is an exponent: 2^X. Assuming that the average available drive capacity is 1-3 TB. For the partition power values, refer to <xref href=" /helion/openstack/carrier/services/swift/deployment/ring-power" >Ring Power and Number of Partitions</xref>.
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Min part hour</b>
</entry>
    <entry>This should be set to however long a full replication/update cycle takes. No partition is moved twice during the specified amount of time.</entry>
    <entry> The recommended value is 24 hours. Note that this restriction is ignored in the case of device failure when there is no option other than reassignment.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="table-b-other-attributes"> <title>Table B - Other Attributes</title>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Attributes</entry>
    <entry>
<ph>Definition</ph>

</entry>
    </row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Disk Label</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Defines disk label of the disk. For more information refer to <xref href=" #preparing-disks-on-swift-nodes" >Preparing disks on Swift nodes</xref>
</entry>
     
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Port</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Port specifies the port number of the node. It is recommended to use the following port number:
    <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><ul>
<li>
    Object ring - 6000</li>
<li>
    Container ring - 6001 </li>
<li>
    Account ring - 6002</li>
</ul>
</entry>
    </row>
<row>
<entry>
<b>Weight</b>
</entry>
    <entry>Weight helps the cluster to calculate the partition that must be assigned to the drive. The higher the weight, the greater number of partitions Swift must assign to the drive.  It is recommended to add or remove drives gradually using a weighted approach to avoid degraded performance of the Swift cluster. The weight will gradually increase or decrease by 25% until it becomes 100% or 0.</entry>

</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="prepare-undercloudswift"> <title>Prepare the undercloud to manage Swift clusters</title>
<p>Using the <b>
<i>ringos</i>
</b> utility you can add the <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-provision-swift-node.dita" >provisioned nodes</xref> to the Swift cluster.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Enable SSH from the undercloud to the overcloud node by copying the SSH keys from the seed to the undercloud.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log in to the seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh root@&lt;seed IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy the SSH key from the seed cloud to undercloud.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa heat-admin@&lt;\undercloud IP address&gt;:/home/heat-admin
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log in to the undercloud.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;undercloud IP address&gt;
# sudo -i
# mv ~heat-admin/id_rsa ~/.ssh/ 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deploying-scale-out-Swift-object-nodes"> <title>Deploy the Scale-out Object Nodes</title>
<!--Source the same file (`kvm-default.json`or `kvm-custom-ips.json`)that is used during the initial installation for specifying the environment IPs. In the following steps we are assuming the usage of kvm-custom-ips.json file at the initial installation.-->
<p>
<!--
Before starting the deployment of scale-out object nodes you must configure the `kvm-default.json` file. If `kvm-default.json` has already been created during installation, edit the file instead.-->
Perform the following steps to deploy scale-out Object nodes:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to the seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;seed IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update the <codeph>so_swift_storage_scale</codeph> parameter in the environment variables file, used during the initial installation, according to your storage needs.</p>

<!--    
2. Update the `so_swift_storage_scale` parameter in  `/root/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json ` file according to your storage needs.-->

<p>Refer <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-provision-swift-node.dita" >Provisioning Swift node(s)</xref> for   details of adding physical server for scale-out Swift in <codeph>baremetal.csv</codeph> file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enter the following command to source the environment variables file  for the new values.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh /root/tripleo/configs/&lt;environment variables file name&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>For example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>    # source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh /root/tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<!--
3. Enter the following command to source the `kvm-default.json`  for the new values.

        # source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh /root/tripleo/configs/kvm-default.json

3. Source the environment variables file created during initial installation. 

        # source /root/kvm-custom-ips.json 


        source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json

--></li>
<li>
<p>Run the installer script to update the cloud.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># bash -x tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_installer.sh --update-overcloud |&amp; tee update_cloud.log
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="verifying-deployed-Swift-nodes"> <title>Verify the Deployed Nodes</title>
<p>Perform the following steps to verify the deployment of Swift nodes:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to the undercloud from the seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;undercloud IP address&gt; 
# sudo -i
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Source <codeph>stackrc</codeph> using the following command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph> # source stackrc 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>List the available scale-out Swift nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t object
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays scale-out Swift nodes:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>+--------------+
| object-nodes |
+--------------+
| 192.0.2.29   |
| 192.0.2.30   |
+--------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>List the disks available on each node.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-disks -n &lt;object nodes IP address&gt; 
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays the disk available on the node <b>192.0.2.29</b>.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>+----------+------------+
| disk     | size       |
+----------+------------+
| /dev/sda | 1073741824 |
|          |            |
| /dev/sdb | 1073741824 |
+----------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Repeat the verification process for all of the object node(s).</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="preparing-disks-on-swift-nodes"> <title>Prepare the Disks on the Deployed Nodes</title>
<p>Once Swift nodes are deployed, the next step is to format and mount the required disks so they can be added to the Swift cluster.</p>
<p>To format a given disk:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># ringos format-disks -n &lt;object node IP address&gt; -d all
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The following sample displays the output of formatted disk of <b>192.0.2.29</b>.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>+----------+-----------+---------+---------------------------------+-------------+------------+
| disk     | formatted | mounted | mount_point                     | label       | size       |
+----------+-----------+---------+---------------------------------+-------------+------------+
| /dev/sda | y         | y       | /mnt/state/srv/node/a1410063335 | a1410063335 | 1073741824 |
| /dev/sdb | y         | y       | /mnt/state/srv/node/b1410063336 | b1410063336 | 1073741824 |               
+----------+-----------+---------+---------------------------------+-------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>If the disks are already mounted and you want to format the disk then execute the following command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># ringos format-disks -n &lt;object node IP address&gt; -d /dev/sdb -f
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The following sample displays the output of forceful formatted disk.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>+----------+-----------+---------+-------------+-------+------+
| disk     | formatted | mounted | mount_point | label | size |
+----------+-----------+---------+-------------+-------+------+
| /dev/sdb | -         | -       | -           | -     | -    |
|          |           |         |             |       |      |
+----------+-----------+---------+-------------+-------+------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: You can also format disks individually by using <codeph>-d &lt;device-name&gt;</codeph>.
For more details, see the <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-object-pyringos.dita" >ringos</xref> manual.</p>
<p>Repeat the above steps for all of the object nodes.</p>
</section>
<section id="creating-scale-out-object-ring"> <title>Create a New Scale-out Object Ring</title>
<p>Once the disk is formatted you can create a scale-out object ring. This ring is created for the scale-out Swift which is an extension of the Starter Swift nodes which are installed by default during HP Helion OpenStack(R) cloud deployment.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Create a directory named <codeph>ring-building</codeph>.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># mkdir -p /root/ring-building
# cd /root/ring-building
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create a ring with the attribute specified in <xref type="section" href="#topic14614/define-object-ring:1">Defining ring attributes of object-ring:1</xref>.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos create-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -p &lt;part_power&gt; -r &lt;replicas&gt; -m &lt;min_part_hours&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays the creation of ring by adding scale-out Swift node to a zone with partition power =10, replicas =3, min_part_hours =24</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos create-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -p 10 -r 3 -m 24
created ring /root/ring-building/object-1.builder
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add the disk to the ring.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos add-disk-to-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -i  &lt;object node IP address&gt; -p  &lt;port&gt; -d &lt;disk label&gt; -w &lt;weight&gt; -r &lt;region&gt; -z &lt;zone&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> You can use the labels and disks which are obtained in the output of the section <xref type="section" href="#topic14614/preparing-disks-on-swift-nodes">Preparing disks on Swift nodes</xref>. For more information on the ring attributes refer to <xref type="section" href="#topic14614/define-object-ring:1">Defining ring attributes of object-ring:1</xref>.</p>

<p>The following sample displays the addition of disk to <b>192.0.2.29</b> and its output.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos add-disk-to-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder -i 192.0.2.29 -p 6000 -d a1410063335 -w 100 -r 1 -z 1
Added disk 192.0.2.29:a1410063335 to ring
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the content of <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> file to ensure that it meets your required configuration.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>`# ringos view-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder`
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays the content of <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> file:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>object-1.builder, build version 9
1024 partitions, 3.000000 replicas, 1 regions, 3 zones, 9 devices, 100.00 balance
The minimum number of hours before a partition can be reassigned is 1
Devices:id  region  zone  ip address  port  replication ip  replication port  name weight partitions balance meta
 0   1 1  192.0.2.29  6000  192.0.2.29  6000 a1410063335 100.00  0 -100.00
 1   1 1  192.0.2.29  6000  192.0.2.29  6000 b1410063336 100.00  0 -100.00
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Re-balance the ring.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos rebalance-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>This will generate an <b>object-1.ring.gz</b> file.</p>

<p>The following sample displays the output of re-balancing the ring:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>Rebalanced ring /root/ring-building/object-1.builder
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the content <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> file after re-balancing the ring.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos view-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="copying-the-rings-to-all-Swift-nodes"> <title>Copy the New Ring(s) to All Nodes</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>List all the rings from the starter Swift nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t starter
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays the list of Starter Swift nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>+---------------+
| starter-nodes |
+---------------+
| 192.0.2.22    |
| 192.0.2.24    |
+---------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Get all the rings and builder files from either of the starter nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/object.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/account.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/container.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/object.builder /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/account.builder /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@&lt;starter Swift nodes IP address&gt;:/etc/swift/container.builder /root/ring-building/
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays all the rings and builder files from <b>19.0.2.22</b>
</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/object.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/account.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/container.ring.gz /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/object.builder /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/account.builder /root/ring-building/
rsync -qzp --rsync-path="sudo rsync" heat-admin@19.0.2.22:/etc/swift/container.builder /root/ring-building/
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: The ring files are identical on both the starter swift nodes. You can copy <b>.gz</b> files  in either of the starter nodes as they are identical.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>List all the Swift nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t  all
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy account, container, object, and generated <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> files to all Swift nodes and press <b>yes</b> when asked to authenticate node.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n &lt;Swift node IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>In the following example account, container, object, and generated <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> are copied to all the nodes:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n 192.0.2.22
# ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n 192.0.2.29

The authenticity of host '192.0.2.29 (192.0.2.29)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is 8a:eb:b7:66:3b:5f:fa:d6:d1:49:80:1a:a7:90:79:20.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
Copied ring /root/ring-building/object-1.ring.gz onto 192.0.2.29
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> files to all Swift nodes and press <b>yes</b> when asked to authenticate node.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.builder -n &lt;Swift node IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: The <codeph>.buldier</codeph> and <codeph>.ring.gz</codeph> files <b>must</b> be present in the Swift nodes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You can also copy the ring or builder files to all the swift nodes:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n all

# ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.builder -n all 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<!--**Note**: The system may escape the authentication of node sometimes. -->
</section>
<section id="update-storage-scaleout-swift"> <title>Update the Storage Policy</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh root@&lt;seed IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit <codeph>/root/tripleo/hp_passthrough/overcloud_swift_conf.json</codeph> to replace the default values with the ones listed:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>{"swift":
  {"config":
    [ 
      {"section": "storage-policy:0",
       "values":
        [ 
          {"option": "name",
           "value": "Policy-0"
          },
          {"option": "default",
           "value": "no"
          }
        ]
      },
      {"section": "storage-policy:1",
       "values":
        [
          {"option": "name",
           "value": "ScaleOut"
          },
          {"option": "default",
           "value": "yes"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<!--

3. Source the `kvm-default.json` file.

    # source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh /root/tripleo/configs/kvm-default.json
--></li>
<li>
<p>Source the environment variables file.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/&lt;environment variables file name&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>For example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the installer script to update the storage policies across the cloud.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># bash -x tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_installer.sh --update-overcloud |&amp; tee update_cloud.log
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic14614/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
