<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2529">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Add New Scale-out Proxy Node</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Keshava HP, Binamra S, Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-add-proxy-node.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/services/swift/deployment/add-proxy-node/--></p>
<p>This topic shows how to add a proxy node to the store account and container ring.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2529/prer">Prerequisite</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2529/deploying-new-node">Deploying new node(s)</xref>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="prer"> <title>Prerequisite</title>
<ul>
<li>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> cloud is successfully deployed.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><i>(Starter Object Sotrage (Swift) nodes are functional by default as they are part of cloud deployment)</i>
</li>
<li>Scale-out object-ring:1 is deployed.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="deploying-new-node"> <title>Deploying new node(s)</title>
<p>Perform the steps mentioned in  <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-provision-swift-node.dita" >Provision Node(s)</xref> to deploy a new node.</p>
</section>
<section id="update-load-balancer-with-new-proxy-nodes"> <title>Update load balancer with new Proxy nodes</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to the undercloud from seed.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;undercloud IP address&gt; 
# sudo -i
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change the directory to ring builder.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># cd /root/ring-building 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy account, container, object, and generated <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> files to proxy nodes and press <b>yes</b> when asked to authenticate the node.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n &lt;proxy node IP address&gt; 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> files to proxy nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\object-1.builder -n &lt;proxy node IP address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>: The <codeph>.buldier</codeph> and <codeph>.ring.gz</codeph> files <b>must</b> be present in the Swift nodes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>After creation of the Proxy node, list the Proxy IP addresses.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t proxy
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>List all the controller nodes</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># nova list
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit <codeph>swift-proxy.cfg</codeph> on each of the controller nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>/etc/haproxy/manual/swift-proxy.cfg
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add the following content in the <codeph>swift-proxy.cfg</codeph> file.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>  listen scale_swift_proxy
  bind &lt;Virtual IP (running on the controller nodes)&gt;:8080
  server &lt;proxy node hostname&gt; &lt;proxy nodes IP address&gt;:8080 check inter 2000 rise 2 fall 5 
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note</b>:</p>

<ul>
<li>The number of "server" lines equals the number of Swift Proxies you have set up.</li>
<li>
<p>For virtual IP:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>Login to the controller node</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;Controller Node IP address&gt;
# sudo -i
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the following command to view the virtual IP of the controller nodes</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>vi /etc/keepalived/keepalived.conf
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restart the HA Proxy service on all these nodes.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># service haproxy restart
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The Swift Proxies are now successfully enabled with HA Proxy.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: You now must add account and container rings to the Swift Proxies. For these instructions, go to <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Swift/carrier-grade-services-swift-deployment-add-disk-account-container.dita" >Adding disk account containers</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2529"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
