<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_xs4_mbr_nt">
 <title><b>Updating the Windows Hosts File</b></title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>If you are running Windows, <b>multicast DNS</b> discovery of a locally running <keyword
    keyref="prodShort"/> micro cloud will generally not work. You can manually set the mapping for
   the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> endpoint and for each application in the Windows
    <codeph>hosts</codeph> file.</p>
  <note><b>Using xip.io</b> for hostname is the easiest way to set up an <keyword keyref="prodShort"
   /> micro cloud VM if mDNS cannot be used. Try this method before modifying the
    <codeph>hosts</codeph> file.</note>
  <p>To modify the <codeph>hosts</codeph> file, open
    <codeph>%SystemRoot%\System32\drivers\etc\hosts</codeph>. The <codeph>hosts</codeph> file
   typically contains some comments and one or two entries. Add your new entries to the bottom of
   the file on separate lines.</p>
  <p>Add entries and corresponding IP addresses for the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> endpoint, the
   AOK (authentication) endpoint, the logs endpoint, and for each application. For example, if the
   IP address of your <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM is <codeph>192.168.68.54</codeph>, and you
   have an application with the URL <codeph>myapp.stackato-xxxx.local</codeph>, you would enter the
   following lines: </p>
  <codeblock>192.168.68.54 api.stackato-xxxx.local
192.168.68.54 aok.stackato-xxxx.local
192.168.68.54 logs.stackato-xxxx.local
192.168.68.54 myapp.stackato-xxxx.local</codeblock>
  <note type="tip">
   To determine the IP address of the Stackato server, run the <codeph>$ ifconfig</codeph>
    command.
  </note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
