<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6037">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Management Console</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/user/console/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The Management Console is a web interface for Application Lifecycle Service (ALS). Using the same API as the ALS command line client, it provides access
to a subset of features for deploying, scaling, and configuring
applications as well as monitoring quota usage, and viewing logs.</p>
<p>The interface differs for Admin and non-Admin users. The features described below are available
      and visible to end users. For information on the Management Console view for Admins, see the
      ALS Admin Guide.</p>
<section id="welcome"> <title>Welcome</title>
<p>The top-level page of the Management Console displays quick links to the
most commonly used resources:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Read the Documentation</b>: By default, this links to the ALS documentation at <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/1.0index.dita" >docs.hpcloud.com</xref>
</li>
<li>
<b>Contact Support</b>: Link to the <xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-support">
<i>Support</i>
</xref>
page.</li>
<li>
<b>Download the Client</b>: Link to the locally hosted <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/client/1.0index.dita#client" type="section"  >
<i>CLI
client</i>
</xref> download.</li>
<li>
<b>Deploy from Sample Applications</b>: Link to the <xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-app-store">Sample Applications</xref>.</li>
<li>
<b>Organizations Membership</b>: Link to the end user view of the
<xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-welcome">
<i>Organizations</i>
</xref> page.</li>
<li>
<b>Account Details</b>: Shows the account details of the current user. Also
accessible from the drop down list at the top left.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="organization-view"> <title>Organization View</title>
<p>The Organizations page shows a list of all
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" type="section"  >
<i>Organizations</i>
</xref> that the
current user is a member of. Depending on how the ALS PaaS has been
set up, it is possible be a member of only a single Organization.</p>
<p>Clicking on the Organization's name opens a view of that organization,
including:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Quota Usage</b>:

<ul>
<li>Memory: The amount of RAM (in GB) available to the Organization,
and how much of it is currently used by applications.</li>
<li>Services: The number of deployed / allotted services.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<b>Domains</b>: Domains belonging to the Organization that can be used by applications deployed to <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" type="section"  >
<i>Spaces</i>
</xref> in the Organization. Typically, these will be a subdomain of the Application Lifecycle Service system itself. For example, an Organization called <codeph>acme</codeph> on a PaaS with the address <codeph>api.example.org</codeph> might have the domain <codeph>\*.acme.example.org</codeph>.</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Tabs</b>:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Spaces</b>: A list of Spaces that belong to the Organization, showing
the current number of applications and services deployed to that
space. Clicking on a Space in the list opens a <xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-space">
<i>view of that
Space</i>
</xref>.</li>
<li>Users: A list of Users who are members of the Organization, showing
the Email address and Organization
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces-roles" type="section"  >
<i>Roles</i>
</xref> of each.

<ul>
<li>Users: can view organization quotas, domains, spaces and users.</li>
<li>Manager: can add domains and spaces to the organization, but not
users.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: There is currently no interface in the Management Console for Managers,
Auditors, or Billing Managers to view or adjust billing/payment info and
spending limits.</p>
</section>
<section id="space-view"> <title>Spaces View</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Apps</b>: A filterable list of applications in the Space. Clicking an
app name opens an <xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-app">
<i>administrative view of that
application</i>
</xref>.</li>
<li>
<b>Services</b>: A list of services bound to applications in the Space.
Clicking a service name opens an <xref type="section" href="#topic6037/user-console-service">
<i>administrative view of that
service</i>
</xref>.</li>
<li>
<b>Domains</b>: A filterable list of Domains attached to the space. Domains
can be added and removed by Space or Organization Managers, but must
first be mapped to the parent Organization (by an Application Lifecycle Service Admin).</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Tabs</b>:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Timeline</b>: A real-time stream of events and discussions relevant to
the Space. The creation, update, and deletion of apps and services
appear here as notifications which can be commented on by members of
the Space. Discussions can be started by any member, tagged, and
assigned to an application (which makes the item visible in the
Application view).</li>
<li>
<b>Managers</b>: Managers can invite/manage users, enable features for a
given space.</li>
<li>
<b>Developers</b>: Developers can create, delete, manage applications and
services, full access to all usage reports and logs.</li>
<li>
<b>Auditors</b>: Auditors have view-only access to all space information,
settings, reports, and logs.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="application-view"> <title>Application View</title>
<ul>
<li>
<b>About</b>: General information about the app including which buildpack
it uses, when it was created, and when it was last modified.</li>
<li>
<b>Routes</b>: Essentially, the URLs mapped to the application. These
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces-routes" type="section"  >
<i>Routes</i>
</xref> are made
up of the name of the application name (a virtual hostname) followed
by a dot and a
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces-domains" type="section"  >
<i>Domain</i>
</xref> (assigned
to the Org and Space).</li>
<li>
<b>Services</b>: Data (and other) service instances deployed in the Space.
May be attached to one or more applications in the Space.</li>
<li>
<b>Memory</b> <b>Usage</b>: Total RAM consumption (in MB) of all apps in the
Space.</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Tabs</b>:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Timeline</b>: An application-specific subset of the Timeline for the
Space.</li>
<li>
<b>Instances</b>: List of application instances showing the status and host
DEA IP address of each.</li>
<li>
<b>Logs</b>: A real time stream of your applications logs.</li>
<li>
<b>Files</b>: A browsable list of directories and files in each application
instance.</li>
<li>
<b>Environment</b> <b>Variables</b>: Environment variables that have been
explicitly set in the application container (via application config,
client commands, or this interface). Default variables, those set by
the application framework, or those added by the system for data
services are excluded from this view.</li>
<li>
<b>Settings</b>: The number of application instances, disk space, and
memory allotment used by the application. This usage counts against
the organizations's quota.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="service-instance-view"> <title>Service Instance View</title>
<p>Clicking a service instance's name anywhere in the interface brings up a
view of that service instance showing:</p>
<ul>
<li>when it was created</li>
<li>when it was last modified</li>
<li>which host it is running on</li>
<li>which port it is exposed on</li>
<li>the service instance name (not the canonical database name)</li>
<li>its current state</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information on a service instance, such as its credentials, use
the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0client-ref.dita#command-service" type="section"  >
<codeph>helion service</codeph>
</xref>
command.</p>
</section>
<section id="marketplace"> <title>Sample Apps</title>
<p>The Sample Apps are collection of ready-to-run applications which can be deployed to Application Lifecycle Service by fetching the source code from the repository.</p>
<p>Click the <b>Deploy App</b> button to start it on Application Lifecycle Service. You will be
prompted to choose a Space and Domain for the app if there are multiple
options available.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
