---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /als/v1/user/console/
product: devplatform1.0
title: "Management Console"
---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Management Console[](#index-1 "Permalink to this headline")

[See the Helion 1.1 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/)

The Management Console is a web interface for Application Lifecycle Service (ALS). Using the same API as the ALS command line client, it provides access
to a subset of features for deploying, scaling, and configuring
applications as well as monitoring quota usage, and viewing logs.

The interface differs for Admin and non-Admin users. The features described below are available and visible to
to end users. For information on the Management Console view for Admins, see the ALS Admin Guide. 

## Welcome {#welcome}
The top-level page of the Management Console displays quick links to the
most commonly used resources:

-   **Read the Documentation**: By default, this links to the ALS documentation at [docs.hpcloud.com](/als/v1/)
-   **Contact Support**: Link to the [*Support*](#user-console-support)
    page.
-   **Download the Client**: Link to the locally hosted [*CLI
    client*](/als/v1/user/client/#client) download.
-   **Deploy from Sample Applications**: Link to the [Sample Applications](#user-console-app-store).
-   **Organizations Membership**: Link to the end user view of the
    [*Organizations*](#user-console-welcome) page.
-   **Account Details**: Shows the account details of the current user. Also
    accessible from the drop down list at the top left.

## Organization View {#organization-view}

The Organizations page shows a list of all
[*Organizations*](/als/v1/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces) that the
current user is a member of. Depending on how the ALS PaaS has been
set up, it is possible be a member of only a single Organization.

Clicking on the Organization's name opens a view of that organization,
including:

-   **Quota Usage**:
    -   Memory: The amount of RAM (in GB) available to the Organization,
        and how much of it is currently used by applications.
    -   Services: The number of deployed / allotted services.
-   **Domains**: Domains belonging to the Organization that can be used by applications deployed to [*Spaces*](/als/v1/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces) in the Organization. Typically, these will be a subdomain of the Application Lifecycle Service system itself. For example, an Organization called `acme` on a PaaS with the address `api.example.org` might have the domain `\*.acme.example.org`.

**Tabs**:

-   **Spaces**: A list of Spaces that belong to the Organization, showing
    the current number of applications and services deployed to that
    space. Clicking on a Space in the list opens a [*view of that
    Space*](#user-console-space).
-   Users: A list of Users who are members of the Organization, showing
    the Email address and Organization
    [*Roles*](/als/v1/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces-roles) of each.
    -   Users: can view organization quotas, domains, spaces and users.
    -   Manager: can add domains and spaces to the organization, but not
        users.

**Note**: There is currently no interface in the Management Console for Managers,
Auditors, or Billing Managers to view or adjust billing/payment info and
spending limits.

## Spaces View {#space-view}

-   **Apps**: A filterable list of applications in the Space. Clicking an
    app name opens an [*administrative view of that
    application*](#user-console-app).
-   **Services**: A list of services bound to applications in the Space.
    Clicking a service name opens an [*administrative view of that
    service*](#user-console-service).
-   **Domains**: A filterable list of Domains attached to the space. Domains
    can be added and removed by Space or Organization Managers, but must
    first be mapped to the parent Organization (by an Application Lifecycle Service Admin).

**Tabs**:

-   **Timeline**: A real-time stream of events and discussions relevant to
    the Space. The creation, update, and deletion of apps and services
    appear here as notifications which can be commented on by members of
    the Space. Discussions can be started by any member, tagged, and
    assigned to an application (which makes the item visible in the
    Application view).
-   **Managers**: Managers can invite/manage users, enable features for a
    given space.
-   **Developers**: Developers can create, delete, manage applications and
    services, full access to all usage reports and logs.
-   **Auditors**: Auditors have view-only access to all space information,
    settings, reports, and logs.

## Application View {#application-view}

-   **About**: General information about the app including which buildpack
    it uses, when it was created, and when it was last modified.
-   **Routes**: Essentially, the URLs mapped to the application. These
    [*Routes*](/als/v1/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces-routes) are made
    up of the name of the application name (a virtual hostname) followed
    by a dot and a
    [*Domain*](/als/v1/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces-domains) (assigned
    to the Org and Space).
-   **Services**: Data (and other) service instances deployed in the Space.
    May be attached to one or more applications in the Space.
-   **Memory** **Usage**: Total RAM consumption (in MB) of all apps in the
    Space.

**Tabs**:

-   **Timeline**: An application-specific subset of the Timeline for the
    Space.
-   **Instances**: List of application instances showing the status and host
    DEA IP address of each.
-   **Logs**: A real time stream of your applications logs.
-   **Files**: A browsable list of directories and files in each application
    instance.
-   **Environment** **Variables**: Environment variables that have been
    explicitly set in the application container (via application config,
    client commands, or this interface). Default variables, those set by
    the application framework, or those added by the system for data
    services are excluded from this view.
-   **Settings**: The number of application instances, disk space, and
    memory allotment used by the application. This usage counts against
    the organizations's quota.

## Service Instance View {#service-instance-view}

Clicking a service instance's name anywhere in the interface brings up a
view of that service instance showing:

-   when it was created
-   when it was last modified
-   which host it is running on
-   which port it is exposed on
-   the service instance name (not the canonical database name)
-   its current state

For more information on a service instance, such as its credentials, use
the [`helion service`](/als/v1/user/reference/client-ref/#command-service)
command.

## Sample Apps {#marketplace}

The Sample Apps are collection of ready-to-run applications which can be deployed to Application Lifecycle Service by fetching the source code from the repository.

Click the **Deploy App** button to start it on Application Lifecycle Service. You will be
prompted to choose a Space and Domain for the app if there are multiple
options available.
