<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_phl_shc_rt">
  <title>Terraform Variables</title>
  <shortdesc>You can configure the following values in your <filepath>tfvars</filepath> file using
    the <filepath>overrides.tfvars.sample</filepath> file included with <keyword keyref="prodLong"/>
    as a guide.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_fjz_c3c_rt">
      <desc>
        <note type="important">All values are required. Except for <codeph>dea_count</codeph>,
          specify all variable values in quotation marks. These values are case-sensitive.</note>
      </desc>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Variable</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>cluster_admin_username</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The initial username for your cluster</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>cluster_admin_password</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The initial password for your cluster</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>dea_count</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The number of Droplet Execition Agent (DEA) hosts that you want to create</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>dns_server</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The DNS server of your local environment, <codeph>8.8.8.8</codeph> by
                default<note>If your local environment does not have a DNS server, remove this
                variable.</note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>http_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The address of your HTTP proxy</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>https_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The address of your HTTPS proxy</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>key_file</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The location and name of the private key <filepath>pem</filepath> file associated
              with your key pair, relative to the <filepath>tfvars</filepath> file.<note type="tip"
                >For convenience, you can place the two files into the same
              directory.</note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>no_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The IP addresses that do not use a proxy</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_availability_zone</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The unique regional location on which the deployment is launched,
                <codeph>nova</codeph> by default</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_base_image_id</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The ID of your Ubuntu 14.04.3 cloud image</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_flavor_id.core</codeph></entry>
            <entry><codeph>4</codeph> (larger or equals to 8 GB) by default</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_flavor_id.dea</codeph></entry>
            <entry><codeph>3</codeph> (larger or equals to 4 GB) by default</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_floating_ip_pool</codeph></entry>
            <entry><codeph>ext-net</codeph> by default</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_keypair</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The name of your key pair.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_network_id</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The network ID.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_network_name</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The name of your network</entry>
          </row>     
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <example>
      <title>A sample <codeph>.tfvars</codeph> file</title>
      <codeblock>openstack_base_image_id = " "

openstack_flavor_id.core = "4"
openstack_flavor_id.dea = "3"

openstack_availability_zone = "nova"
openstack_keypair = "myKeyPair"
openstack_network_id = "123a1ab1-12a1-123a-1a12-a1234a123a12""
openstack_network_name = "myNetwork"
openstack_floating_ip_pool = "ext-net"
dns_server = "203.0.113.0"
key_file = "myKeyFile.pem"

cluster_admin_username = "myClusterUsername"
cluster_admin_password = "myClusterPassword123"

dea_count = 1

http_proxy = "http://myproxy.example.com/"
https_proxy = "https://myproxy.example.com/"

no_proxy = "198.51.100.0/24"</codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
