<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2491">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating and Deleting Images</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.images.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/images/create/--></p>
<section id="create-an-image"><p>You can create and delete virthal machine images as needed.</p><ul
        id="ul_tkv_rwx_3t">
        <li><xref href="#topic2491/create-an-image" format="dita">Create an image</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#topic2491/delete-an-image" format="dita">Delete an image</xref></li>
      </ul><title>Create an image</title>Creating a new image for use in HP Helion OpenStack
      requires two general steps.<p>The first step is to create an ISO image file outside of your HP
        Helion OpenStack</p><p>When the ISO image file is complete and ready for use, you use HP
        Helion OpenStack to upload the image to your cloud.</p><p>
        <b>Note:</b> After you upload an image, it is considered <i>golden</i> and you cannot change
        it.</p><ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Based on whether you are <xref
            href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-how-works.dita#topic6108">working on a project
            or the domain</xref>:<ul id="ul_zvj_cgt_jt">
            <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
                <b>Volumes</b> tab. </li>
            <li>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>Compute</b> panel, then the
                <b>Volumes</b> tab. </li>
          </ul><p>The available images are listed.</p></li>
        <li>In the <b>Images</b> table, click <b>Create Image</b>.</li>
        <li>In the <b>Create an Image</b> screen, provide the image information:<ul>
            <li><b>Name</b> - Enter a name for the image.</li>
            <li><b>Description</b> - Optionally, enter a brief description of the image.</li>
            <li><b>Image Source</b> - Choose the image source from the list. Your choices are Image
              Location and Image File.</li>
            <li><b>Image File or Image Location</b> - Based on your selection for Image Source, you
              either enter the location URL of the image in the Image Location field. or browse to
              the image file on your system and add it. <b>Note:</b> The Image Location field must
              be a valid and direct URL to the image binary. URLs that redirect or serve error pages
              will result in unusable images.</li>
            <li><b>Format</b> - Select the correct format (for example, QCOW2) for the image.</li>
            <li><b>Architecture</b> - Specify the architecture. For example, i386 for a 32-bit
              architecture or x86-64 for a 64-bit architecture.</li>
            <li><b>Minimum Disk</b> - Enter the minimum disk size required to boot the image. Leave
              the field blank to specify no minimum. </li>
            <li><b>Minimum RAM (MB)</b> - Enter the minimum memory size required to boot the image.
              Leave the field blank to specify no minimum.</li>
            <li><b>Public</b> - Select this option to make the image public to all users with access
              to the current project. Leave the option clear to allow the image to be used in all
              projects in the domain.</li>
            <li><b>Protected</b> - Select this option to prevent the image from being deleted. Leave
              the option clear to allow the image to be deleted.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Click <b>Create Image</b> to launch the image.</li>
        <li>Optionally, you can click <b>Launch</b> to <xref
            href="../Instances/CGH-2-User-Instance-create.dita#topic2817">create a running
            instance</xref> based on this image.</li>
      </ol></section>
  <section id="delete-an-image"> <title>Delete an image</title>
    <p>You can delete images, as needed. A deleted image is no longer available. Any instances launched from the deleted instance are not affected.</p>

    <p>To delete a private image:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
        Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
      <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
        appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
      <li>Based on whether you are <xref
            href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-how-works.dita#topic6108">working on a project
            or the domain</xref>:<ul id="ul_btt_cgt_jt">
            <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
                <b>Volumes</b> tab. </li>
            <li>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>Compute</b> panel, then the
                <b>Volumes</b> tab. </li>
          </ul><p>The available images are listed.</p></li>
      <li>In the <b>Images</b> screen, click the check box next to the image name you want to delete. To
        select all images, click the check box next to <b>Image Name</b> the top row of the image
        list.</li>
      <li>Click <b>Delete</b> to delete the image.</li>
      <li>The image is no longer available. Any instances launched from the deleted instance are not
        affected.</li>
    </ol>
    
  </section>

</body>
</topic>
