---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/app-logs/
product: devplatform2.0
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Application Logs "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.2
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Application Logs {#application-logs}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/user/deploy/app-logs/)

Logs for applications running on Application Lifecycle Service are aggregated into streams so that data from multiple instances can be viewed together and filtered. Application log streams can be accessed via:

-   the [*Management Console*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/console/customize/#management-console)
    using the **View Logs** button on the application Details page, or
-   the [*helion logs*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-logs)
    command
-   application log [*drains*](#application-logs-drain)

Log streams are tailed output from actual log files in each application
container, which are generally found in the */home/helion/logs/* directory.
These files can be accessed with the [*helion
files*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-files) command or from the
Application details page of the [*Management
Console*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/console/customize/#management-console).

**Note**

These files are not automatically rotated. For long-running applications
or verbose logs, you should [*rotate them*](#application-logs-rotate) to
avoid filling up the application container's filesystem.

helion logs[](#helion-logs "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------

To view an application log stream, use the [*helion
logs*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-logs) command:

    helion logs myapp

To limit the number of lines displayed, use the `--num` option:

    helion logs myapp --num 50

To view a log stream as it is updated, use the `--follow` option:

    helion logs myapp --follow

Log streams can be filtered on a number of parameters:

-   **--text** does a glob pattern match on the log message
-   **--instance** shows only logs from the specified application
    instances (starting at instance 0).
-   **--filename** filters based on the log filename (e.g. 'stderr.log')
-   **--source** shows only logs from the specified source ('app' or
    'staging'). Without a source specified, the log stream includes
    staging and application logs as well as cloud events relevant to
    app.

The `--json` flag can be used to return each log
line as a JSON object.

**Note**

`helion logs` buffers only 400 lines of the log
stream history (i.e. lines generated prior to it being run). If you need
earlier log lines, use the [*helion
files*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-files) command to fetch the
relevant log file from the *logs/* directory or create a log
[*drain*](#application-logs-drain) preemptively (where possible).

### Adding Files to the Stream[](#adding-files-to-the-stream "Permalink to this headline")

By default, `helion logs` streams log data from
*staging\_tasks.log* (while staging), *stdout.log* and *stderr.log*
(while running).

You can add up to five additional files to the log stream by modifying
the **HELION\_LOG\_FILES** environment variable in the
[*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#env) file or using [*helion set-env*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-set-env).

The variable should contain a list of named files separated with ":" in
the following format:

    name=/path/to/file.log:name=/path/to/another.log

The *name* used in the value or individual variable name becomes part of
each log line, and can be used for filtering the stream.

For example, to add a specific Tomcat log file to the default \$HELION\_LOG\_FILES variable, you could add the following lines to *manifest.yml*:

    env:
      HELION_LOG_FILES: tomcat=/home/helion/tomcat/logs/catalina.2013-11-04.log:$HELION_LOG_FILES

Paths can be fully specified or specified relative to \$HELION\_APP\_ROOT.

helion drain[](#helion-drain "Permalink to this headline")
---------------------------------------------------------------

The [*helion drain add*](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-drain-add) command is used to create a log drain which forwards application logs to external log aggregation services, log analysis tools, or Redis databases. For example:

    helion drain add myapp appdrain udp://logs.papertrailapp.com:12345

This creates a UDP drain called **appdrain** for the application **myapp** which forwards all log messages and events for that application to [Papertrail](http://papertrailapp.com/) on port 12345. 

The log drain URL can contain only:

-   **scheme**: `udp://` or `tcp://`
-   **host**: IP address or hostname
-   **port**: number

Any additional parameters are discarded.

To delete the drain:

    helion drain delete appdrain

Use the --json option send the log lines in JSON format:

    helion drain add myapp jsondrain --json udp://logs.papertrailapp.com:12346

To check the status of your application drains, use the *helion drain list* command.

**Note**

If the service at the receiving end of the drain goes offline or becomes
disconnected, Application Lifecycle Service will retry the connection at increasing
intervals.

Rotating Application Log Files[](#rotating-application-log-files "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Application Lifecycle Service does not automatically rotate application log files in
*/home/helion/logs/*. However, you can add log rotation for these
files yourself using `cron` and
`logrotate`. Programming languages, frameworks, and utilities handle logging
operations in different ways. Check for incompatibilities with
`logrotate` before implementing log rotation scheme using it.

1.  Add a cron key in *manifest.yml* to run `logrotate`. Set HELION\_CRON\_INSTANCES to "all" to specify that
    the job should be run in all application instances. For example:

        env:
          HELION_CRON_INSTANCES: all
        cron:
          - 0 1 * * * /usr/sbin/logrotate --state /home/helion/app/logrotate-state /home/helion/app/app-logrotate.conf

    The `--state` option must be set because the
    `helion` user does not have permission to
    update the default state file.

2.  Add an *app-logrotate.conf* file to the base directory of your application to specify which log files to rotate, and which `logrotate` options to use. For example:

        /home/helion/logs/\*.log {
          daily
          compress
          copytruncate
          dateext
          missingok
          notifempty
          rotate 3
          maxage 7
          size 3M
        }

