<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2514">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Memcached Service</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>Memcached is an in-memory key-value store used for caching by many web
applications and frameworks. It is available in Application Lifecycle Service as a service
which can be shared by application instances.</p>
<section id="using-the-service"> <title>Using the Service</title>
    <p>As with other <xref href="data-services.dita#user_data_services">data services</xref>, the
                location and port of the memcached service is exposed to the application via
                environment variables: MEMCACHED_URL or VCAP_SERVICES.</p>
<p>The easiest way to connect an application to a Memcached service is to
use the MEMCACHE_URL environment variable. It contains the location and
port of the service created for the application. For example:</p>
<codeblock>MEMCACHE_URL=10.13.0.6:11000</codeblock>
<p>Using MEMCACHED_URL will only work if <codeph>sasl_enabled</codeph> is set to
                    <codeph>False</codeph> in the memcached_node configuration (default). To enable
                SASL for Memcached, an Application Lifecycle Service administrator can run the
                following commands on the Cloud Controller:</p>
<codeblock>kato config set memcached_node sasl_enabled true
kato restart memcached</codeblock>
    <p>With SASL enabled, applications must parse the <xref
                    href="data-services.dita#user_data_services/vcap-services"
                    ><i>VCAP_SERVICES</i></xref> environment variables to extract the
                    <codeph>name</codeph>, <codeph>user</codeph>, and <codeph>password</codeph>
                strings from the memcached <codeph>credentials</codeph> list. Using SASL with
                Memcached requires client libraries/modules in the application which support
                authentication via SASL.</p>
<note type="warning">Running Memcached <b>without</b> SASL enabled is insecure and should only be done if all system users are trusted. Any Application Lifecycle Service user can connect to the provisioned service instance if the IP address and port is discovered.</note>
</section>
<section id="django-example-using-memcached"> <title>Django Example using Memcached</title>
<p>The <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/django-gtd" scope="external" format="html" >Django GTD</xref> sample
application uses the simpler VCAP_SERVICES method for connecting to the
Memcached service without authentication.</p>
<p>The relevant configuration in this example:</p>
<ol>
<li> specifies the location of memcache using the MEMCACHED_URL in
                    <i>settings.py</i>:<codeblock>CACHES = {
    'default': {
    'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.memcached.MemcachedCache',
    'LOCATION': os.getenv('MEMCACHED_URL'),
    }
}</codeblock></li>
<li> adds the cache to middleware
                    classes:<codeblock>MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'django.middleware.cache.UpdateCacheMiddleware',
    'django.middleware.cache.FetchFromCacheMiddleware',
    ...
)</codeblock></li>
<li> adds the python-memcached module and a memcached service in
                    <i>manifest.yml</i>:<codeblock>requirements:
    pip:
    - python-memcached
    ...
services:
    memcached-gtd: memcached
    ...</codeblock></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
