<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1925">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Deploying the Memphis
    Template</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0: Installation Overivew</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This document describes the process for installing HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
    <section id="about-the-installation">
      <title>About the installation</title>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Memphis Deployment installs a VM for the lifecycle
        manager, creates a base HP Helion OpenStack cloud, configures network virtualization through
        HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN), and deploys a carrier grade cloud.</p>
      <p>After installation, you can interact with the HP Helion OpenStack cloud using the <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade2.0/ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-horizon-overview.dita"
          >Horizon graphical interface</xref> or using the CLIs of the respective <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade2.0/Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita"
        >services</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="install-option">
      <p id="memphis"><b>KVM + ESX with DCN Topology using the <i>memphis</i> template</b></p>
      <p>If you are installing the <codeph>memphis</codeph> template, you are installing the KVM
        region and VMware ESX storage. The networking uses HP DCN VRS. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install DCN, ESX, and 3PAR and/or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack
        installation and are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the
        installation, you will integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the
          <xref href="CGH-2-install-memphis.dita#topic10581c2im/storage">installation
          instructions</xref> for the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
      <title>Unbonded or Bonded NIC configuration</title>
      <p>During the installation, specific steps might be different, based on whether you are
        installing into a single NIC or bonded NIC environment. </p>
    </section>

    <section id="installation-process">
      <title>Installation process</title>
      <p>Use the following process to install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a baremetal
        environment.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Review the <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade2.0/Installation/carrier-grade-technical-overview-memphis.dita">Technical
            Overview</xref> for information on the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade environment. <ul>
            <li>Review the Cloud Topologies to decide appropriate topology for your use case.</li>
            <li>Review the deployment architecture for different hypervisors</li>
            <li>Review the network architecture for networking needs</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Review the <xref href="carrier-grade-support-matrix-memphis.dita#topic1773">Support
            Matrix</xref> to make sure your environment meets the minimum requirements.</li>
        <li> Perform any required or optional <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade2.0/Installation/CGH-install-prereqs-memphis.dita"
            >installation prerequisites</xref>. </li>
        <li>
          <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade2.0/Installation/carrier-grade-install-network-prepare.dita"
            >Prepare the network for installation</xref>
        </li>
        <li>Install the cloud topologies: <p>In this cloud topology, the standard OpenStack services
          like Keystone, Glance, Cinder, Swift are installed in the non-KVM region first. Then the
          KVM region is installed. </p><ul id="ul_fxd_x4c_b5">
            <li>Install <xref href="CGH-2-install-lifecycle-memphis.dita">the Lifecycle
              Manager</xref>.</li>
            <li>Install the <xref href="CGH-2-install-memphis.dita">HPE Helion
              OpenStack cloud</xref>. These components will be installed into what is called the
              <i>Non-KVM region</i>.</li>
            <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581cgilh">Helion
              user interface</xref>.</li>
            <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-memphis.dita">carrier grade cloud</xref>. 
              The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what is
              called the <i>KVM region.</i></li>
          </ul></li>
        
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="first-step">
      <title>First Step</title>
      <p>Perform the <xref href="CGH-install-prereqs-memphis.dita">prerequisite steps</xref> required
        to install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
