<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Enabling LDAP</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p><!--Based on https://wiki.hpcloud.net/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=53516567--></p>
    <p>The HPE Helion OpenStack Identity service can use Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
      (LDAP) to integrate your organization's existing directory service and user account management
      processes. LDAP integration can be performed during the HPE Helion OpenStack installation
      process.</p>
    <section><title>Enabling LDAP Before HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is Installed</title><p>If
        HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is not installed, use the following steps to enable
        LDAP.</p><b>Configure LDAP Before installation</b><p>
        <ol id="ol_v43_k1q_yt">
          <li>Set up the LDAP server, before installing HP Helion OpenStack Carrier GRade. The LDAP
            server needs to be running, and reachable by the nodes.</li>
          <li>Create admin and service accounts. The service accounts need to have suitably named
            users and passwords created in the correct group on the LDAP server, with suitable
            permissions for the admin user.</li>
          <li>Edit the definitions.json file several variables are needed under ansible-vars, to
            proceed with an LDAP enabled
            cloud.<codeblock>"ldap_url": "10.1.64.20" (url of the LDAP server)
"ldap_username": "admin" (username of the admin account)
"ldap_password": "admin" (password of the admin account)
"ldap_domain": "dc=cdl,dc=local" (domain of the LDAP server)
"ldap_ou": "CG-Test-Users" (OU to be used for this cloud)
"ldap_enabled": 1 (variable to determine if the LDAP enabling steps are done)</codeblock></li>
        </ol>
      </p><p><b>Install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade</b>
      </p>Once the variables are set correctly, the cloud can be deployed as normal via hdeploy.
      This should cause the cloud to be deployed as normal, followed by the LDAP enabling roles that
      will follow.</section>
    <section><title>Enabling LDAP After HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is Installed</title><p>If
        HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is already installed, use the following steps to enable
        LDAP.</p>Deploy LDAP support after cloud deployment</section>
    <ol id="ol_lhc_5hq_yt">
      <li>Set Variables as above</li>
      <li>Edit the <codeph>/&lt;Cloud Name>/clouds/&lt;Cloud
          Name>/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/</codeph> to comment-out roles.</li>
      <li>Edt the: <codeph>/&lt;Cloud Name>/clouds/&lt;Cloud Name>/001/stage/ansible/</codeph> to
        comment-out roles.</li>
      <li>Edit the <codeph>build-CCP-T&lt;1-3>.yml</codeph> to comment out all roles that except
        LDP-CCN.</li>
      <li>Change build-CCP-CPN.yml as above</li>
      <li>Before you run, if this code has been run in the past and you are running it again due to
        a failure of some kind, you need to check the assignments database and delete any records
        that have an actor_id that is not a GUID.<p>For
          example:<codeblock>Actor_id = ‘admin’
Actor_id = ‘ceilometer’
Actor_id = ‘cinder’  </codeblock></p><p>The
          roles need to be removed. Leaving only the records with a 16 digit hex number for
            <codeph>actor_id</codeph>. The playbook will attempt to create these records and it will
          fail if they exist already.</p></li>
      <li>Deploy Cloud using hdeploy. </li>
    </ol>
    <p/>
    <section>
      <title>Troubleshooting</title>
      <p>If you have any issues with the enablement, see the following troubleshooting tips.</p>
    </section>
    <p>
      <ul id="ul_ahp_2dq_yt">
        <li>Verify users in LDAP server; sometimes users can be created without privileges, typos in
          username or passwords.</li>
        <li>Check <codeph>/etc/keystone/keystone.conf</codeph> on controller nodes to make sure the
          playbook ran correctly and finished setting all LDAP settings with the variables set
            above.<ul id="ul_vfd_jdq_yt">
            <li>If anything differs, or does not exist, the LDAP code was not run or the variables
              were not set correctly.</li>
            <li>These values can be set manually if there was a typo, or the LDAP section of the
              ansible playbooks can be run by themselves.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Check <codeph>/etc/glance/glance-cache.conf</codeph>, <codeph>glance-api.conf</codeph>,
          and <codeph>glance-registry.conf</codeph> to make sure the admin_user, and admin_password
          match what is in the LDAP server.<ul id="ul_bnx_kdq_yt">
            <li>If anything differs, or does not exist, the LDAP code was not run or the variables
              were not set correctly.</li>
            <li>These values can be set manually if there was a typo, or the LDAP section of the
              ansible playbooks can be run by themselves.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Check <codeph>/etc/cinder/cinder.conf</codeph> to make sure the admin_user, and
          admin_password match what is in the LDAP server.<ul id="ul_wv3_rdq_yt">
            <li>If anything differs, or does not exist, the LDAP code was not run or the variables
              were not set correctly.</li>
            <li>These values can be set manually if there was a typo, or the LDAP section of the
              ansible playbooks can be run by themselves.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Check <codeph>/etc/nova/nova.conf</codeph> to make sure the neutron_admin_user,
          neutron_admin_password, admin_user, admin_password, match what is in the LDAP server.<ul
            id="ul_v2v_wdq_yt">
            <li>If anything differs, or doesn’t exist the LDAP code either wasn’t run, or the
              variables weren’t set correctly.</li>
            <li>These values can be set manually if there was a typo, or the LDAP section of the
              ansible playbooks can be run by themselves.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Log into MySQL and select the Keystone database. Execute the <codeph>select * from
            assignments;</codeph> query to confirm that there are entries for each user in the
          table. These users should have the LDAP username in the <codeph>actor_id</codeph> column,
          and there should be two for each user (with 6 for admin). If this is not the case, the
          MysSQL script did not run in the playbook and should be run again.</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <p> </p>
  <p>Return installing the non-KVM region for: <ul id="ul_n3r_dfx_wt">
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-denver.dita#topic10581/ldap3">denver template</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-tahoe.dita#topic10581/ldap3">tahoe template</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-memphis.dita#topic10581/ldap3">memphis template</xref></li>
    <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-sacramento.dita#topic10581/conref-ldap-keystone">sacramento template</xref></li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
