<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1107cgikt">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Deploying the KVM Region in a Tahoe Deployment</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>

  <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/intro"/>
  <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/controller-0"/>
  <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/install-cloud"/>
  <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/unlock"/>
    <section id="kvm-esx-unlock">
      <title>For a Non-Bonded Environment</title>
      <ol id="ol_y3f_w2j_h5">
        <li>After the controller-1 and the compute nodes come up successfully after PXE boot,
          execute the following commands from controller-0 to unlock the compute nodes.<ol
            id="ol_p42_d35_lt">
            <li>Create the Infra interface:
              <codeblock>system host-if-add –V &lt;bls/infra VLAN ID&gt; –nt &lt;network_type> &lt;host-name or ID> &lt;interface_name> &lt;interface_type> &lt;port or interfaces></codeblock></li>
            <li>Configure the VRS interface:
                <codeblock>system host-if-modify &lt;host-name or ID> -n &lt;interface_name> -nt &lt;network_type> --ipv4-mode=static eth-x </codeblock><p>Where
                  <codeph>eth-x</codeph> is the interface on which untagged TUL is
              presented.</p></li>
            <li>Configure<codeblock>system host-if-modify 3 &lt;host-name or ID> -nt data-vrs --ipv4-mode=pool --ipv4-pool=vrspool</codeblock></li>
            <li>Update the host:
                <codeblock> system host-update &lt;host-name or ID> vsc_controllers=&lt;ipv4/ipv6_address>,&lt;ipv4/ipv6_address> </codeblock><p>Enter
                the IP address of the VSC controllers</p></li>
            <li>Unlock the host: <codeblock>system host-unlock &lt;host-name or ID></codeblock></li>
          </ol><p><b>Example
          commands:</b></p><codeblock>system host-if-add -V 73 -nt infra 3 infra vlan pxeboot0
system host-if-modify 3 -n vrs -nt data-vrs --ipv4-mode=static eth2
system host-if-modify 3 vrs -nt data-vrs --ipv4-mode=pool --ipv4-pool=vrspool
system host-update 3 vsc_controllers=10.20.6.31,10.20.6.32
system host-unlock 3</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  
  <section id="kvm-unlock"><title>For a Non-Bonded Environment</title>
    <ol>
      <li>Create the Infra interface. See <xref
        href="../AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-inventory-detail-interfaces.dita#topic6151cgawhmidi"
      /> or <i>Interfaces</i> in the Administrtor Guide.</li>
      <li>Create a Provider Network. See <xref
        href="../AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.provider.dita#topic3878"
      /> or <i>Setting Up a VXLAN Provider Network</i> in the Administrator Guide.</li>
      <li>Create VLAN Ranges on the provider network using the <b>Create Segmentation Range</b>
        option. See <xref
          href="../AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.segment.dita#topic2171"
        /> or <i>Setting Up a VXLAN Provider Network</i> in the Administrator Guide.</li>
      <li><xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-network-interface.dita#topic1107cgikni">Create data
        interface.</xref> See <i>Configuring Endpoint IP Addresses</i> in the Administrator
        Guide.</li>
      <li>Optionally, change the default CPU allocations and/or the default memory allocations
        (huge pages) on each processor, such as the NUMA (Non-Uniform Memory Access) nodes. See
        <i>Processor</i> in the Administrator Guide.</li>
      <li><xref
        href="../AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita#topic3241cgawhmhl"
        >Unlock the compute nodes</xref>. Compute nodes will reboot. Keep polling the status on
        the inventory page to show <b>Available</b> and <b>Online</b>.</li>
      <li>If you are using a bonded interface, see <xref href="#topic1107cgikt/nic-unlock" format="dita">For
        bonded NIC environments</xref>.</li>
    </ol>
  </section>
  
  <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/nic-unlock" id="nic-unlock"/>
    <section conref="carrier-grade-install-kvm-sacramento.dita#topic1107cgiks/ssl"/>
  
  <section id="next-step">
      <title>Next Steps</title>
      <p><xref href="carrier-grade-install-post.dita#topic1107cgip">Post-Installation Tasks</xref>.</p>
      <p>If you are installing the <b>Sacramento</b> deployment, also see <xref
          href="../OperationsGuide/Baremetal/carrier-grade-provision-baremetal-nodes.dita#topic1107cgpbn"
          >Provision Baremetal Nodes for the Sacramento Deployment</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
