<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd"><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581cgikwjm">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Sample wr.json File for Memphis
        and Tahoe</title>

<prolog>
    <metadata>
        <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
        <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
        <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>The process for installing the memphis or sacramento deployment requires several JSON files
            that will be used when deploying the lifecycle manager.</p>
        
<section id="sample-node-provisionjson-file">
            <p><b>For bonded NIC environments</b>, edit the file as follows:</p>
            <codeblock>{
    "lag_interface": "Y",   
    "lag_mode": 4,
    "interface_mtu": 1500,
    "interface_ports": [
    "eth0, eth1"
],</codeblock>
            <p>Make sure the file contains the following lines for the TUL network. Remove any
                additional TUL entries, if present:</p>
            <codeblock>"vswitch_type": "nuage_vrs",
"tul_ip_start_address": "10.x.x.x",
"tul_ip_end_address": "10.x.x.x",
"region_name": "regionone",</codeblock>
            <p><b>For SR-IOV environments,</b> edit the following values.</p>
            <p><codeph>physnet_VLAN_range_mappings</codeph>: Specify VLAN ranges for SRIOV/PCIPT
                enabled Tenant Networks in the following format:
                &lt;physical_network&gt;[:&lt;vlan_min&gt;:&lt;vlan_max&gt;] tuples .
                <!--From Hrushi email 10/16/15--></p>
            <p><codeph>pci_vendor_id</codeph>: Specify a comma-separated list of supported Vendor
                PCI Devices, in the <codeph>vendor_id:product_id</codeph> format. This variable used
                to define the devices being used for SR-IOV interfaces.
                <!--From Hrushi email 10/16/15--></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Sample wr.json file</title>
            <p>The following represents a sample <codeph>wr.json</codeph> file in the
                    <codeph>/var/hlm/clouds/&lt;cloudname&gt;/&lt;cloudname>/vars</codeph> directory
                on the lifecycle manager. The IP addresses are masked for security purposes. Use values
                appropriate for your environment.</p>
            <codeblock>{
    "product": {
        "version": 1
    },

    "property-groups": [
        {
            "name": "wr-vars",
            "properties": {
                "database_storage": 70,
                "backup_storage": 350,
                "shared_instance_storage": 250,
                "vswitch_type": "nuage_vrs",
                "region_name": "regionone",
                "logical_interface": [
                    {
                        "lag_interface": "N",
                        "lag_mode": 4,
                        "interface_mtu": 1500,
                        "interface_ports": [
                            "eth0"
                        ],
                        "network": [
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "10.x.x.x",
                                "ip_end_address": "10.x.x.x",
                                "name": "management"
                            },
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "172.x.x.x",
                                "ip_end_address": "172.x.x.x",
                                "name": "blockstore"
                            },
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "10.x.x.x",
                                "ip_end_address": "10.x.x.x",
                                "name": "api"
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                ],
                "pxeboot_cidr": "10.x.x.x/24",
                "license_file_name": "license.lic",
                "physnet_VLAN_range_mappings": ["physnet1:211:215","physnet2:216:220"],
                "pci_vendor_id": ["8086:10ca","8086:10ed"]
            }
        }
    ]
}            </codeblock>
        </section>
        <p>Return to installing the non-KVM region for the:<ul id="ul_wnl_v4f_b5">
                <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-tahoe.dita#topic10581c2it/conref-json">Tahoe
                        deployment</xref></li>
                <li><xref href="CGH-2-install-memphis.dita#topic10581c2im/wr">Memphis
                        deployment</xref></li>
            </ul></p>
</body>
</topic>
