<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1107cgip">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Post-Installation
    Tasks</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>After HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is fully installed and deployed, perform the tasks in
      this section. </p>
    <section>
      <title>Verify the VSC VMs</title>
      <p>The installation process creates virtual machines for VSC. VSC VMs are installed and are
        operational. </p>
      <p>For more information, see <xref href="carrier-grade-install-verify-vsc.dita#topic10581cgivvsc"
        />.</p>
    </section>
  <section><title>Verify the VRS-G Node</title>
    <p>The installation creates a VRS-G node as part of the cloud
      deployment. Use the following command to verify that the VRS-G is active.</p>
  </section>
    <section id="next-step">
      <title>Verify LDAP</title>
      <p>You should verify that LDAP is functioning correctly.</p>
      <p>For more information, see <xref href="carrier-grade-install-ldap-verify.dita#topic10581cgilv"
          >Verifying the LDAP Deployment</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Provision Baremetal Nodes for the Sacramento Deployment</title>
        <p>If you are installing the <codeph>sacramento</codeph> template, which includes the KVM
        region, the baremetal region, ESX storage, and uses HPE DCN VRS networking, follow these
        instructions to provision baremetal nodes.</p>
      <p>For more information, see <xref
          href="../OperationsGuide/Baremetal/carrier-grade-provision-baremetal-nodes.dita#topic1107cgpbn"
          >Provision Baremetal Nodes for the Sacramento Deployment</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  <section><title>Configure a 5930 Switch to Support PCI-PT/SR-IOV/Baremetal Ports</title> This
      document provides a sequence of events to understand how VMs with vNIC type PCI-PT or SRIOV is
      orchestrated to provide: <ul>
        <li>IP assignment to the vNICs from the tenant network pool</li>
        <li>vNICs are part of VSD managed subnet (VxLAN segment) to allow communication between a VM
          with virtio vNIC, a VM with SRIOV vNIC and a VM with PCI-PT vNIC in the same l2
          domain.</li>
      </ul><p>For more information, see: <xref
          href="../OperationsGuide/Baremetal/carrier-grade-configure-5930-switch.dita#topic10581cgc5s"
          >Configuring 5930 Switch to Support PCI-PT/SR-IOV/Baremetal Ports</xref></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
