<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3058">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Managing Host Aggregates</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostAggregates/carrier-grade.dashboard.aggregate.managing.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/aggregates/--></p>
<p>A host aggregate is a method to subdivide availability zones into <i>hypervisor pools</i>, which is a collection of hypervisors grouped together into a collection of common hosts.</p>
<p>Host aggregates can be regarded as a mechanism to further partition an availability zone into multiple groups of hosts that share common resources like storage and network.</p>
<p>As an administrator you can manage the host aggregates in your domain:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3058/createagg">Create a host aggregate</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3058/editagg">Modify a host aggregate</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3058/editmeta">Managing Metadata</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3058/deleteagg">Delete a host aggregate</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="createagg"> <title>Create a host aggregate</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Host Aggregates</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the Host Aggregates screen, click <b>Create Host Aggregate</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Create Host Aggregate</b> screen, enter a descriptive name for the aggregate in the <b>Name</b> field.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Optionally, specify an availability zone in which the aggregate will be created.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Manage Hosts within Aggregate</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add hosts to the aggregate by clicking the <b>+</b> icon next to the host system you want to add.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Host Aggregate</b>.</p>

<p>A message is displayed on successful creation.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="editagg"> <title>Modify a Host Aggregate</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Host Aggregates</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Perform one of the following tasks:</p>

<p>
<b>To change the name or availability zone:</b>
</p>

<p>a. For the aggregate you want to edit click <b>Edit Host Aggregate</b>.</p>

<p>b. Enter a new name and/or availability zone.</p>

<p>c. Click <b>Save</b>.</p>

<p>
<b>To change the hosts associated with the aggregate:</b>
</p>

<p>a. For the aggregate you want to edit, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Manage Hosts</b>.</p>

<p>b. Add a host to the aggregate by clicking the <b>+</b> icon next to each project in the <b>All Available Hosts</b> column.</p>

<p>c. Remove a host from a aggregate by clicking the <b>-</b> icon in the <b>Selected Hosts</b> column.</p>

<p>d. Click <b>Save</b> when done.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="editmeta"> <title>Managing Metadata</title>
<p>Compute uses a metadata service for virtual machine instances to retrieve instance-specific data.</p>
<p>You can add and remove metadata for host aggregates, see <xref href="../MiscTasks/carrier-grade.dashboard.metadata.dita" >Managing Metadata</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="deleteagg"> <title>Delete a host aggregate</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Host Aggregates</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the Host Aggregates screen, for the aggregate you want to delete,  click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Delete Host Aggregate</b>.</p>

<p>To delete multiple host aggregates, click the check box next to name of each host aggregate to delete. Click <b>Delete Host Aggregates</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Host Aggregate</b>.</p>

<p>The host aggregate is removed.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3058"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
