---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.0: Development Platform: Release Notes"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/release-notes/
product: devplatform1.0

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Release Notes
[See the Helion 1.1 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/release-notes/)


The following release notes are for the HP Helion Development Platform 1.0 released on 10/14/2014. We hope you enjoy the release!
Known Issues:

1. **Intermittent Authentication Errors from Keystone**. Some requests to keystone will intermittently fail to authenticate. Retrying the request will generally succeed. This is a known issue and will be fixed in the next release.

1. **Database Service will not install if there are more than three availability zones**. You need to have only three availability zones to install the database service.

1. **Database Instance and backup deletion not available from the Horizon UI**. The Horizon UI is not able to delete database instances and backups. This is a known issue and will be fixed in the next release.

2. **Password Field is not used when creating a RabbitMQ cluster**. The password field in the Horizon panel is not necessary when creating a RabbitMQ cluster, and will be ignored. This is a known issue and will be fixed in the next release.

3. **Download PEM not working in the RabbitMQ Panel for the Messaging Service**. In Safari browsers the download PEM button results in an error. 

4. **RabbitMQ cluster creation fails when a floating IP pool has not been selected**. You must select a floating IP pool when creating a RabbitMQ cluster in the messaging service.

5. **Using the correct network to connect to an ALS cluster**. When pushing applications to ALS, you will be presented with two domains for the new application (unless additional domains have been added by the ALS cluster administrator): a xip.io address such as 10.0.0.1.xip.io, and a local domain such as hphelion-xyz.local. When connecting to the ALS Cluster over a network only the xip.io domain will allow clients to connect to the deployed application, choose this option you they have assigned custom domains to you cluster.

7. **Small DEAs can run out of disk space**. The ALS Seed Node Images in 1.0 are shipped in a frozen 10 gigabyte size, resulting in a limited amount of disk space available for applications and services. This can result in highly active clusters failing over time due to a lack of disk space. It is recommended to allocate more 4 gigabyte DEAs rather than fewer larger DEAs.



----
