<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic13767">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Release Notes for HP Helion Development Platform 1.1</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/1.1devplatform.release-notes.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/release-notes/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The following release notes are for the HP Helion Development Platform 1.1 released in February 2015. We hope you enjoy the release!</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13767/DPnotes">Development Platform Release Notes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13767/alsnotes">ALS Release Notes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13767/known">Known Issues</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="DPnotes"> <title>Release Notes</title>
<p>The following features have been changed in the HP Helion Development Platform:</p>
<p>
<b><tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Juno support</b> <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->All of the <xref href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-overview.dita#Openstack" >HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> services</xref> have been updated to <xref href="http://www.openstack.org/software/juno/" scope="external" format="html" ><tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Juno</xref>.</p>
<p>
<b>Updated Command Line Client</b> <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
The <xref href="../devplatform/helion/CLI/1.1ALS_Client_Reference.dita" >ALS Cluster Management Tool</xref> (cfmgmt.exe). has been updated to provide more options for managing clusters from the command line.</p>
<p>
<b>Additional ALS Client Commands</b>
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
More <xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita" >commands</xref> are now available for managing your ALS deployment from the command line.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-control.dita" >Control</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-flags.dita" >Feature Flags</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-securitygroups.dita" >Security Groups</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-spacequotas.dita" >Space Quotas</xref> </li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Ruby CLI No Longer Supported</b> <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->The Ruby CLI (unix_cli) is no longer supported. Users are advised to consider the Python CLIs as an alternative.</p>
</section>
<section id="alsnotes"> <title>ALS Release Notes</title>
<p>Due to length, the ALS release notes have been separated out.
v3.4.2</p>
<ul>
<li>New Features

<ul>
<li>[103548] Apps can now be moved between Spaces (by Org Managers) and Orgs (by Admins).</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Management Console UI for:</p>

<ul>
<li>[102890] Quota management</li>
<li>User Provided Service Instances</li>
<li>Routes within a Space</li>
<li>All Routes (Admin view)</li>
<li>Space Quota Plans</li>
<li>Feature Flags</li>
<li>Toggling Admin/Non-admin view</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enhancements &amp; Updates</p>

<ul>
<li>[104831] Merge from upstream Cloud Foundry (August 2014)</li>
<li>[105462] Updated built-in Buildpacks</li>
<li>[104659] Logyard stream is now brandable</li>
<li>[105465] Updated Node.js to v0.10.33</li>
<li>[105411] Update Docker to 1.3</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Bug Fixes</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>Management Console</p>

<ul>
<li>[102951] Consistent styling of common UI patterns</li>
<li>[102489] Show problem components in red</li>
<li>[102316] App logs in chronological order (previously reverse chronological)</li>
<li>[105420] Fixed usage reporting in Space quota view</li>
<li>[105413] Hide non-functional UI elements for users without permission to use them</li>
<li>[105352] START button disappears from web console in certain condition</li>
<li>Deleting an app now asks if you also want to delete the routes associated with that app</li>
<li>[104841] Router Stats Dashboard 'Connections' display expands outside the box when it's over 6 digits</li>
<li>[104866] JS error: Cannot read property 'trim' of undefined welcome.js.src.js:106</li>
<li>[104820, 104819, 104818] App file browser view bugs</li>
<li>[104809] Server date/time warning</li>
<li>[104028] Add "install app from app store" to the space page</li>
<li>[104703] Unexpected results from clicking on domain rows</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Kato</p>

<ul>
<li>[105318] Options for <codeph>kato data export</codeph> for exporting just the Cloud Controller main database (users, orgs, spaces).</li>
<li>[98559] <codeph>kato status</codeph> now faster. Contacts all nodes concurrently.</li>
<li>[105286] <codeph>kato patch</codeph> checks that it is up-to-date before applying patches.</li>
<li>[105467] <codeph>kato start controller</codeph> needs to check for multiple controllers</li>
<li>[105347] <codeph>kato patch install</codeph> attempts to repeatedly update other nodes</li>
<li>[105298] Kato emits "error getting sizes" message every 10 seconds</li>
<li>[105260] Installed patch status lost</li>
<li>[105014] Fixed recursion in <codeph>kato patch update</codeph>
</li>
<li>[104860] <codeph>kato patch install</codeph> on non-existent patch should return proper error message</li>
<li>[104458] <codeph>kato data import/export</codeph> unauthorized service offering error</li>
<li>[104893] Inconsistent kato command <codeph>kato data repair_routes</codeph>
</li>
<li>[104785] <codeph>kato relocate containers</codeph> doesn't maintain all DOCKER_OPTS</li>
<li>[104621] <codeph>kato relocate</codeph> failure: error trying to unmount an aufs docker node</li>
<li>[104133] <codeph>kato relocate</codeph> does not work if data is on different device</li>
<li>[103770] <codeph>kato node reset factory</codeph> fails with error</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Docker &amp; Fence</p>

<ul>
<li>[105194] Fence crashing with fork error</li>
<li>[105123] Fence process keeps restarting</li>
<li>[105116] Fence connection issues</li>
<li>[105322, 105202, 105362] Clean up orphaned containers</li>
<li>[105295] app logs going to Fence</li>
<li>[105259] Fence crash on services node during patching</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Upgrades</p>

<ul>
<li>[104975, 105424] Upgrade issue with filesystem service</li>
<li>[104935] Random hang during upgrade</li>
<li>[104925] Fatal error in Bundler during upgrade</li>
<li>[104912] Pin bundler to a known good version in sentinel</li>
<li>[105698] Upgrade fails on stackato-tools-3.4.1 with 'no such directory'</li>
<li>[105690] Upgrade fails on client due to incorrect versions</li>
<li>[105689] <codeph>sentinel download --for-upgrade</codeph> should download intermediate version</li>
<li>[104982] Failing with exception during mysql upgrade</li>
<li>[104842] Unable to delete app after upgrade from 3.2.1 -&gt; 3.4.1</li>
<li>[104996, 104993] Log drains stop working after upgrade</li>
<li>[104554] Duplicate key value on first kato op remap_hosts after data import</li>
<li>[104499] 3.2.1-&gt;3.4.1 upgrade fails with NoMethodError</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Security</p>

<ul>
<li>various fixes for POODLE</li>
<li>[105437] <codeph>stackato-ssh</codeph> breaks when SSLv3 disabled</li>
<li>[105161] CVE-2014-5119 glibc vulnerability that leads to escalation</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Misc</p>

<ul>
<li>[105068] DEA lockup</li>
<li>[105514] Missing /usr/share/doc directory restored</li>
<li>[105513] run_fibered_command: Don't create /dev/fd if it already exists.</li>
<li>[104272] Staging and pre-running hooks abort if they return a non-zero exit code (as in v2.10).</li>
<li>[105590] Longer default health check timeouts. Modified settings will need to be reset after an upgrade from v3.4.1.

<ul>
<li>cloud_controller_ng/maximum_health_check_timeout is now 1800 seconds (30min)</li>
<li>dea_ng/default_health_check_timeout is now 300 seconds (5min)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>[104166] app_store and app_mdns can't connect to redis after restart</li>
<li>[105702] AOK: LDAP fix (omniauth-ldap)</li>
<li>[105430] Update to latest available kernel</li>
<li>[105432] AOK: AD LDAP auth failing - Encoding::UndefinedConversionError, "x82" from ASCII-8BIT to UTF-8</li>
<li>[105410] Better Docker base image update/upgrade instructions</li>
<li>[105365] Make all periodic-timer intervals configurable and responsive</li>
<li>[105372] Stackato-tty crashes if VM window confines text rendering</li>
<li>[105339] Prevent use of routes already deployed in different Org or Space</li>
<li>[105335] Problem with file view when using a load balancer (407 error)</li>
<li>[105333] Cloud Controller memory leak</li>
<li>[105246] Can't delete migrated (3.2 to 3.4) applications</li>
<li>[105148] Updated cf-services-connector-nodejs to match current service API</li>
<li>[105110] Fixed rack support in Legacy Buildpack</li>
<li>[105066] Run app/.profile.d scripts being run with bash instead of dash</li>
<li>[105049] Updated recommendation for minimum disk size (30GB)</li>
<li>[104972] CSS delayed visibility in customized web console</li>
<li>[104963] Org/Space Customization does not work when a non-default quota is specified</li>
<li>[104898] Setting up Postgres external service changes internal Postgres password</li>
<li>[104882] Exceptions are getting wrapped up in unhelpful "An unknown error occurred" exceptions</li>
<li>[104817] hastebin app: use filesystem service for storage instead of redi</li>
<li>[104807] apptail configuration problems showing in Cloud Events of upgraded systems</li>
<li>[104796] Application view button on spaces Apps view doesn't work</li>
<li>[104794] PostgreSQL external service - error after kato restart postgresql</li>
<li>[104787] Can't deploy to api.paas.as.com - "Cannot allocate memory - unzip -l"</li>
<li>[104782] helion report support help in console has incorrect syntax</li>
<li>[104757] Upgrades - exit out of an upgrade as early as possible if all nodes are already on the latest version </li>
<li>[104728] Two apps can communicate only under limited circumstances</li>
<li>[104702] uninitialized constant VCAP::CloudController::App::InvalidRouteRelation</li>
<li>[104694] Staging cannot find admin_buildpacks directories on sandbox</li>
<li>[104692] Legacy import sometimes creates routes with a leading '.'</li>
<li>[104689] Disk usage after upgrade increases by ~5GB</li>
<li>[104680] Changes in app_bits_controller.rb lost in 2014-05 merge</li>
<li>[104664] AWS upgrade from 3.2.1 fails at Buildpack phase</li>
<li>[104635] Hardcoded strings in license settings view</li>
<li>[104627] Endless redirect loop in console when enforcing https on the api endpoint</li>
<li>[104605] cannot delete apps whose services got disabled</li>
<li>[104592] Deleting one user from a space deletes every user from that space</li>
<li>[104570] Applications &gt; Versions: If app has never been started, there is nothing on the versions page</li>
<li>[104561] Imported Java applications don't auto-configure for RabbitMQ</li>
<li>[104421] Retry different route if default route is unavailable during legacy import</li>
<li>[104358] %age calculations in bar usage graphs (e.g. DEA, AZ, PZ memory graphs) incorrect</li>
<li>[104077] App store app 'calipso' doesn't deploy</li>
<li>[103994] Push version info into the timeline</li>
<li>[103390] Inconsistent prefixes in app logs</li>
<li>[104672] Appstore urls don't get rewritten during upgrade from 3.2 that was previously upgraded from 3.0</li>
<li>[104560] nats-pub and nats-sub missing</li>
<li>[104470] Quota Definitions -&gt; Quota Plans (CF terminology change)</li>
<li>[104487] Default space for ldap users should be generated based on user's email/login creds</li>
<li>[104396] "git clone" hangs in proxy environment</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>ALS client updated to 3.2.0

<ul>
<li>[105710] Ensured that filename in buildpack upload ends in ".zip" to avoid the moronic target-side type check by file extension.</li>
<li>[104659] Implemented handling of branded log prefix for system/app distinction.</li>
<li>[105708] Removed the <codeph>admin patch</codeph> command.</li>
<li>[105652] Fixed code ordering issue which caused use of an outdated client object.</li>
<li>[105644] Added SSL/TLS cert validation, and opt-out. Option<codeph>--skip-ssl-validation bool</codeph>. Env. Variable STACKATO_SKIP_SSL_VALIDATION. Sticky setting when used with <codeph>target</codeph> command.</li>
<li>[105637] Do not ask the user for a missing current org when the command spaces is invoked with option <codeph>--all</codeph>, as this mode does not require an org.</li>
<li>[105648] Generate a proper error message when the command <codeph>delete --all</codeph> is invoked without a current space, instead of crashing.</li>
<li>[105631] Extended the commands <codeph>org-users</codeph> and <codeph>space-users</codeph> with support for option <codeph>--json</codeph>.</li>
<li>[105192] Extended help for parameters based on the "memspec" validation type (units used, syntax).</li>
<li>Added new option <codeph>--all</codeph> to the command spaces. When used the command will show all spaces across all orgs, instead of just the spaces in the current/chosen org.</li>
<li>Implemented the restage command for applications.</li>
<li>[105490] Capture json and other errors in a bad <codeph>--token-file</codeph>, and report them properly instead of as internal error.</li>
<li>[105019] Tweak the help text of push option <codeph>--force-war-unpacking</codeph> for clarity.</li>
<li>[103548] Implemented migration of applications across spaces and orgs.</li>
<li>[105497] Keep the original filename of a buildpack on upload, even when going through temp files (like used for uploading by url, and to remove a superfluous top-level directory).</li>
<li>[105518] Modified low-level REST code to reset an output channel on redirection, as a redirection may come with its own, unwanted, response body. Seen with buildpack downloads from github, adding a redirection message in front of the retrieved zip archive. While not breaking the archive this is a bug waiting to happen for other places.</li>
<li>Global options and proper option argument types in help texts. Option <codeph>--colormode</codeph>.</li>
<li>Support for feature flags, security groups, and space quotas.</li>
<li>Command <codeph>push</codeph> (as update). Added generation of sensible output for when 0-downtime switch-over was available and got triggered.</li>
<li>Added undocumented debug option <codeph>--keep-form</codeph> to commands <codeph>create-buildpack</codeph> and <codeph>update-buildpack</codeph>. Taking a path argument its use allows introspection of the form-data generated and uploaded by the client.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="known"> <title>Known Issues</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<b>ALS Cluster Create via UI does not provide a way to input proxy settings.</b> Either use <xref href="../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.1configuration.dita#http-proxy" >the workaround</xref> to input proxy settings or create the cluster with the <xref href="../devplatform/helion/CLI/1.1ALS_Client_Reference.dita" >ALS Cluster Management Tool</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Inaccessible Clusters Can Be Restarted</b> If an ALS cluster becomes inaccessible due to environment issues, it can be restarted from the <xref href="../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita" >kato command line</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Live Migration of Instance in Stopped, Suspended, or Rescued State May Fail</b> Make sure instances are not in the Stopped, Suspended, or Rescued state before attempting to migrate them to a new host. A 400 error may appear; a message "Failed to migrate instance..." may be received; or the client may quietly time out, leaving the instance stuck in the Migrating state and thus unmanageable.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Install supported from within Admin project only</b>: When using the Horizon console, select only the <b>Admin</b> tenant before running the installer. Do not run the installer from any other projects.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Password Field is not used when creating a RabbitMQ cluster</b>. The password field in the Horizon panel is not necessary when creating a RabbitMQ cluster and will be ignored. This is a known issue and will be fixed in the next release.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Download PEM not working in the RabbitMQ Panel for the Messaging Service</b>. In Safari browsers only, clicking the button to download a PEM file results in an error.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>RabbitMQ cluster creation fails when a floating IP pool has not been selected</b>. You must select a floating IP pool when creating a RabbitMQ cluster in the messaging service.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Use the correct network to connect to an ALS cluster</b>. This note applies only if your ALS cluster administrator has not created additional, custom domains for your use. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->By default, when pushing applications to ALS, you will be presented with two domains for the new application: a xip.io address (example: <i>10.0.0.1.xip.io</i>) and a local domain (example: <i>hphelion-xyz.local</i>). When connecting to the ALS Cluster over a network, select the xip.io domain to allow clients to connect to the deployed application. Do not select the local network.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Development Platform Update Fails</b>. Occasionally, updating the Development Platform may fail at configuring HAproxy.  This is a known issue.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Running <i>kato patch install</i> fails to install patches on non-core nodes in ALS 1.1 clusters.</b> This issue only applies to ALS clusters created using an installer image older than version 1.1.0.19. <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.troubleshooting.dita#katopatch" >Update the cluster</xref> with the <i>cf-fix-kato-patch</i> command line tool.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
