---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion Development Platform Release Notes"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/release-notes/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version3: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: System Engineer
role3: Cloud Administrator
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Application Developer
Role6: Security Engineer
role7: Application Developer 
role8: ISV Developer
role9: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion 1.1  Development Platform: Release Notes for HP Helion Development Platform 1.1


The following release notes are for the HP Helion Development Platform 1.1 released in February 2015. We hope you enjoy the release!

## Release Notes

The following features have been changed in the HP Helion Development Platform:

**OpenStack&reg; Juno support** <br />All of the [HP Helion OpenStack services](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/#OpenStack) have been updated to [OpenStack Juno](http://www.openstack.org/software/juno/).

**Updated Command Line Client** <br />
The [ALS Cluster Management Tool](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/reference) (cfmgmt.exe). has been updated to provide more options for managing clusters from the command line.

**Additional ALS Client Commands**<br />
More [commands](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/) are now available for managing your ALS deployment from the command line.

- [Control](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/control)
- [Feature Flags](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/flags)
- [Security Groups](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/securitygroups)
- [Space Quotas](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/spacequotas) 

**Ruby CLI No Longer Supported** <br />The Ruby CLI (unix_cli) is no longer supported. Users are advised to consider the Python CLIs as an alternative.

## Known Issues:

1. **ALS Cluster Create via UI does not provide a way to input proxy settings.** Either use [the workaround](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/configuration/#http-proxy) to input proxy settings or create the cluster with the [ALS Cluster Management Tool](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/reference).

3. **Inaccessible Clusters Can Be Restarted** If an ALS cluster becomes inaccessible due to environment issues, it can be restarted from the [kato command line](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/).

4. **Live Migration of Instance in Stopped, Suspended, or Rescued State May Fail** Make sure instances are not in the Stopped, Suspended, or Rescued state before attempting to migrate them to a new host. A 400 error may appear; a message "Failed to migrate instance..." may be received; or the client may quietly time out, leaving the instance stuck in the Migrating state and thus unmanageable. 

3. **Install supported from within Admin project only**: When using the Horizon console, select only the **Admin** tenant before running the installer. Do not run the installer from any other projects.

3. **Password Field is not used when creating a RabbitMQ cluster**. The password field in the Horizon panel is not necessary when creating a RabbitMQ cluster and will be ignored. This is a known issue and will be fixed in the next release.

3. **Download PEM not working in the RabbitMQ Panel for the Messaging Service**. In Safari browsers only, clicking the button to download a PEM file results in an error. 

4. **RabbitMQ cluster creation fails when a floating IP pool has not been selected**. You must select a floating IP pool when creating a RabbitMQ cluster in the messaging service.

5. **Use the correct network to connect to an ALS cluster**. This note applies only if your ALS cluster administrator has not created additional, custom domains for your use. <br />By default, when pushing applications to ALS, you will be presented with two domains for the new application: a xip.io address (example: *10.0.0.1.xip.io*) and a local domain (example: *hphelion-xyz.local*). When connecting to the ALS Cluster over a network, select the xip.io domain to allow clients to connect to the deployed application. Do not select the local network. 

----
