<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5147">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Documentation</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/1.1devplatform.index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/--></p>
<p>

</p>
  <p>Welcome! The HP Helion Development Platform is a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) that helps developers build great cloud-native applications across private and public clouds.  Based on <xref href="http://cloudfoundry.org/index.html" scope="external" format="html" ><tm tmtype="tm">Cloud Foundry</tm></xref> and fully integrated with <xref href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.index.dita" >HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm></xref>, the HP Helion Development Platform is open and interoperable, ensuring that developers can focus on building the right app for any environment.</p>
<p>This documentation will help you get up to speed on the  Helion Development Platform as a Developer or Administrator.</p>
<section id="platform-overview"> <title>Platform Overview</title>
<p>The <xref href="../devplatform/helion/1.1index.dita" >Application Lifecycle Service (ALS)</xref> is a Cloud Foundry-based, managed runtime environment for applications.</p>
<ul>
<li>It supports <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita#java" >Java</xref>, <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita#node" >Node</xref>, <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita#PHP" >PHP</xref>, and other language runtimes.</li>
<li>It provides easy access to services like MySQL, PostgreSQL, RabbitMQ, and Memcache.</li>
<li>It allows Disk, Memory and Placement Zone constraints to be set per application.</li>
<li>It provides auto-scaling and application log drains.</li>
</ul>
<p>The Application Lifecycle Service is <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform_commercial_install.dita#install-als" >installed</xref> as part of the Helion Development Platform. You can easily <xref href="../devplatform/helion/admin/1.1index.dita#wizard-based-cluster-creation" >create and configure</xref> Application Lifecycle Service clusters from the Horizon management console, or explore this service by setting up a <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.ALS-developer-trial-quick-start.dita" >Quick Start Developer Trial</xref> in the public cloud.</p>
</section>
<section id="application-services"> <title>Application Services</title>
<p>The HP Helion Development Platform provides additional Application Services that integrate into the Application Lifecycle Service. These currently include:</p>
</section>
<section id="database-as-a-service"> <title>Database as a Service</title>
<p>The <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.database-instance.dita" >Database as a Service (DBaaS)</xref> provides lifecycle services for MySQL database instances. Lifecycle services includes provisioning, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and monitoring that can be administered from either a CLI interface, RESTful APIs or the Horizon dashboard.</p>
<ul>
<li>An implementation of <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Trove" scope="external" format="html" ><tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Trove</xref>, <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.database-instance.dita" >Database as a Service</xref> provides scalable and reliable cloud database provisioning functionality for both relational and non-relational databases.  </li>
<li>The Database service provides a simple and easy way to access and utilize features in a database without the overhead of administration.  </li>
</ul>
<p>The <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.database-ALS.dita" >Database as a Service</xref> is optionally <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform_commercial_install.dita#install-database" >installed and configured</xref> as part of the Helion Development Platform. If not installed as part of the platform, you can install it and then configure it for <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.database-ALS.dita" >use from within the Application Lifecycle Service</xref>.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>
      <xref href="install#install-database" >Install</xref>
      <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
    </entry>
    <entry>
      <xref href="databaseservice" >Provision</xref>
      <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
      <xref href="connectdatabase" >Connect with ALS</xref>
    </entry>
  </row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="messaging-service"> <title>Messaging Service</title>
<p>The <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.using-the-messaging-service.dita" >Messaging Service</xref>  provides developers with the ability to provision RabbitMQ clusters using a wizard-based UI directly from Horizon.</p>
<ul>
<li>The Messaging Service integrates with <xref href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-identity-overview.dita" >Keystone</xref> to remove the need to create separate credentials for RabbitMQ access. </li>
<li>The Messaging Service allows developers to focus on building their apps without worrying about installing, configuring, and troubleshooting RabbitMQ.</li>
</ul>
<p>The Messaging Service is optionally installed as part of the Helion Development Platform. If not installed as part of the platform, you can <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform_commercial_install.dita#install-messaging" >install</xref> it and then <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.using-the-messaging-service.dita" >configure</xref> it for <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.using-messaging-service-with-ALS.dita" >use from within the Application Lifecycle Service</xref>.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>
      <xref href="install#install-messaging" >Install</xref>
      <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
    </entry>
    <entry>
      <xref href="messageservice" >Provision</xref>
      <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
      <xref href="msgaas/als" >Connect with ALS</xref>
    </entry>
  </row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="the-marketplace"> <title>The Marketplace</title>
<p>The <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.marketplace.install.dita" >Marketplace</xref> is a product catalog that will be used to deliver the best of breed applications and services required to support world-class, enterprise-grade applications.</p>
<ul>
<li>It automates installation and enablement of supported applications and services.</li>
<li>Includes instructions for installing an instance of Vertica Community Edition.</li>
</ul>
<p>The Marketplace is optionally installed as part of the Helion Development Platform. You can <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform_commercial_install.dita#install-marketplace" >install</xref> and <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.marketplace.install.dita" >use</xref> it to easily install applications and services to accelerate your development efforts.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>
      <xref href="install#install-marketplace" >Install</xref>
      <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
    </entry>
    <entry>
      <xref href="marketplace" >Provision</xref>
    </entry>
  </row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="platform-tools"> <title>Platform Tools</title>
<p>The Helion Development Platform is accessible via the following tools:</p>
<p>
  <b>Helion Command-Line Interface (CLI)</b>
  <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
</p>
<p>Use the Helion CLI to deploy your app to the development platform through the command line. <xref href="../devplatform/helion/user/client/1.1index.dita#helion-client-setup" >Setup</xref> instructions are available for here both <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> and Unix/Mac operating systems.</p>
<p>
<b>Eclipse Plugin</b>
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
 If your developers work in the Eclipse IDE, <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.eclipse.dita" >install and use</xref> the Eclipse plug-in to quickly configure the Helion Development Platform as a deployment target for your app.</p>
</section>
<section id="installation-options"> <title>Installation Options</title>
<p>Most of the Helion Development Platform documentation assumes that you've already provisioned an environment where you can deploy your apps. There are two ways to deploy Development Platform technology:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Quick Start Developer Trial</b>: The fastest way to set up a functional Helion Development Platform environment is the <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform.ALS-developer-trial-quick-start.dita" >Quick Start Developer Trial</xref> (sandbox) on the public cloud.</li>
<li>
<b>Standard Installation</b>: Install a <xref href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.install-GA-overview.dita" >Commercial HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm></xref> cloud and then <xref href="../devplatform/1.1devplatform_commercial_install.dita" >install</xref> the Helion Development Platform.  </li>
</ul>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
<section id="resources-for-application-developers"> <title>
  Resources for Application Developers
</title>
</section>
<section id="resources-for-it-ops"> <title>
  Resources for IT Ops
</title>
<!--### [Resources for <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Integration, Extension, and Service Development](/helion/devplatform/1.1/servicedev/) -->
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
