---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion Development Platform Software License Terms" 
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/eula/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: none
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/glossary/">&#9664; PREV | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/3rd-party-license-agreements/"> NEXT &#9654;</a> </p>
-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Software License Terms
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/helion/devplatform/eula/)

- [Part 1: HP End User License Agreement](#eula)
- [Part 2: Additional License Authorizations for Software](#auth)
- [Part 3: Ancillary and Open Source Software for Software](#ancilliary)

##  Part 1: HP End User License Agreement {#eula}

**1. Applicability.** This end user license agreement (the "Agreement") governs the use of accompanying HP Helion Development Platform Software ("Software"), unless it is subject to a separate agreement between you and Hewlett-Packard Company and its subsidiaries ("HP"). By downloading, copying, or using the Software you agree to this Agreement.

**2. Terms.** This Agreement includes supporting material accompanying the Software or referenced by HP, which may be software license information, additional license authorizations, software specifications, published warranties, supplier terms, open source software licenses and similar content ("Supporting Material"). Additional license authorizations are below and at [HP Helion Development Platform Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements](/helion/devplatform/1.1/3rd-party-license-agreements/).

**3. Authorization**. If you agree to this Agreement on behalf of another person or entity, you warrant you have authority to do so.

**4. Consumer Rights.** If you obtained Software as a consumer, nothing in this Agreement affects your statutory rights.

**5. Electronic Delivery.** HP may elect to deliver Software and related software product or license information by electronic transmission or download.

**6. License Grant.** If you abide by this Agreement, HP grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use one copy of the version or release of the accompanying Software for your Internal Use only; this license is subject to any specific software licensing information that is in the Software product or its Supporting Material.
Your use is subject to the following restrictions, unless specifically allowed in Supporting Material:


-You may not use Software to provide products or services to third parties.
-You may not make copies and distribute, resell, sublicense or provide access to the Software to third parties.
-You may not download and use patches, enhancements, bug fixes, or similar updates unless you have a license to the underlying Software. However, such license doesn't automatically give you a right to receive such updates and HP reserves the right to make such updates only available to customers with support contracts.
-You may not copy Software or make it available on a public or external distributed network.
-You may not allow access on an intranet unless it is restricted to authorized users.
-You may make one copy of the software for archival purposes or when it is an essential step in authorized use.
-You may not modify, reverse engineer, disassemble, decrypt, decompile, or make derivative works of Software except as permitted by law. 


**7. Remote Monitoring.** Some software may require keys or other technical protection measures and HP may monitor your compliance with the Agreement, remotely or otherwise. If HP makes a license management program for recording and reporting license usage information, you will use such program no later than 180 days from the date it's made available.

**8. Ownership.** No transfer of ownership of any intellectual property will occur under this Agreement..

**9. Copyright Notices.** You must reproduce copyright notices on software and documentation for authorized copies.

**10. 90-day Limited Warranty for HP Software.**  HP-branded software is free of malware at the time of delivery; if you notify HP within 90 days of delivery of non-conformance to this warranty, HP will replace your copy. This Agreement states all remedies for warranty claims.  
-HP does not warrant that the operation of software will be uninterrupted or error free, or that software will operate in hardware and software combinations other than as authorized by HP in Supporting Material. To the extent permitted by law, HP disclaims all other warranties.


**11. Intellectual Property Rights Infringement.** Except for those components subject to third party license terms as provided in Section 14(e) of this Part 1, HP will defend and/or settle any claims against you that allege that HP-branded software as supplied under this Agreement infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. HP will rely on your prompt notification of the claim and cooperation with our defense. HP may modify the software so as to be non-infringing and materially equivalent, or we may procure a license. If these options are not available, we will refund to you the amount paid for the affected product in the first year or the depreciated value thereafter, and HP will have no further obligations under this Section 11 for your continued use of the software. HP is not responsible for claims resulting from any unauthorized use of the software.

**12. Limitation of Liability.** HP's liability to you under this Agreement is limited to the amount actually paid by you to HP for the relevant software, except for amounts in Section 11 ("Intellectual Property Rights Infringement"). Neither you nor HP will be liable for lost revenues or profits, downtime costs, loss or damage to data or indirect, special or consequential costs or damages. This provision does not limit either party's liability for: unauthorized use of intellectual property, death or bodily injury caused by their negligence; acts of fraud; willful repudiation of the Agreement; or any liability that may not be excluded or limited by applicable law..

**13. Termination.** This Agreement is effective until terminated or in the case of a limited-term license, upon expiration; however, your rights under this Agreement terminate if you fail to comply with it. Immediately upon termination or expiration, you will destroy the software and documentation and any copies, or return them to HP. You may keep one copy of software and documentation for archival purposes. We may ask you to certify in writing you have complied with this section. Warranty disclaimers, the limitation of liability, this section on termination, and Section 14 ("General") will survive termination.

**14. General.**
	
a. Assignment. You may not assign this Agreement without prior written consent of HP, payment of transfer fees and compliance with HP's software license transfer policies. Authorized assignments will terminate your license to the software and you must deliver software and documentation and copies thereof to the assignee. The assignee will agree in writing to this Agreement. You may only transfer firmware if you transfer associated hardware.
	
b.  U.S. Government. If the software is licensed to you for use in the performance of a U.S. Government prime contract or subcontract, you agree that, consistent with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, commercial computer software, computer software documentation and technical data for commercial items are licensed under HP's standard commercial license.
	
c. Global Trade Compliance. You agree to comply with the trade-related laws and regulations of the U.S. and other national governments. If you export, import or otherwise transfer products provided under this Agreement, you will be responsible for obtaining any required export or import authorizations. You confirm that you are not located in a country that is subject to trade control sanctions (currently Cuba, Iran, N. Korea, N. Sudan, and Syria) and further agree that you will not retransfer the products to any such country. HP may suspend its performance under this Agreement to the extent required by laws applicable to either party.
	
d. Audit. HP may audit you for compliance with the software license terms. Upon reasonable notice, HP may conduct an audit during normal business hours (with the auditor's costs being at HP's expense). If an audit reveals underpayments then you will pay to HP such underpayments. If underpayments discovered exceed five (5) percent, you will reimburse HP for the auditor costs
	
e Third Party and Open Source Components. To the extent any component of the software is subject to any third party license terms, including open source license terms, then those third party license terms or open source license terms shall govern with respect to the subject component; otherwise, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.   
	
f. Notices. Written notices under this Agreement may be provided to HP via the method provided in the Supporting Material or if none, via "contact HP" site on [www.hp.com](www.hp.com).
	
g. Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the state of California, U.S.A., excluding rules as to choice and conflict of law. You and HP agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods will not apply.
	
e. Force Majeure. Neither party will be liable for performance delays nor for non-performance due to causes beyond its reasonable control, except for payment obligations.
	
f. Entire Agreement. This Agreement represents our entire understanding with respect to its subject matter and supersedes any previous communication or agreements that may exist.  Modifications to the Agreement will be made only through a written amendment signed by both parties. If HP doesn't exercise its rights under this Agreement, such delay is not a waiver of its rights.
	
**15. Australian Consumers.** If you acquired the software as a consumer within the meaning of the 'Australian Consumer Law' under the Australian Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth) then despite any other provision of this Agreement, the terms at this URL apply:  [http://www.hp.com/go/SWLicensing](http://www.hp.com/go/SWLicensing).


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

## Part 2: Additional License Authorizations for Software ## {#auth}

This Part 2 includes Additional License Authorizations (ALA) for the Software.  You may use the Software in accordance with the terms of this ALA in addition to the terms of your agreement with HP, or in the absence of such agreement, the HP End User License Agreement (EULA) in Part 1 above as well as the Ancillary and Open Source Software license terms listed in Part 3.  You may also be referred to as &ldquo;Customer&rdquo; below.

### Definitions ###

Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Additional License Authorizations document are defined in the governing Agreement.



**Commercial Service Provider**	means a Customer acting as a third party service provider contracted by an end user to provide commercial services to that end user.

**Development Platform**	means a collection of services that run on top of an HP Helion OpenStack Cloud Fabric that are configured and operated to create a development and application runtime environment.

**HP Helion OpenStack  Cloud Fabric**	means a collection of physical and virtual operating system environments using HP Helion OpenStack&reg; Software that are configured and operated as a unit to provide virtualization, networking, website, storage and file services.

**HP Helion OpenStack&reg; Software**	means an HP Helion OpenStack&reg; software product used for building, managing and consuming cloud services 

**Internal Use**	means use of the Software for purposes of supporting Customer's internal business operations or functions.

**Physical Server**	means a single, physical hardware server or other computer but is not a Virtual Machine.

**Use**	means to use, install, store, load, execute and display the Software in accordance with the particular license(s) purchased by Customer.

**Virtual Machine(s) **	means a computer that does not physically exist but is simulated by another computer.



### Additional License Terms ###

**1.	Software:** 
Subject to Customer's compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, HP grants to Customer a non-exclusive, limited, non-sublicenseable, non-transferable, revocable license to Use Software to create, configure and operate a development and application runtime environment on a per Physical Server basis for the term as specified in the purchase agreement.  
 
- Per Server License: Following purchase, this per-server license is to be assigned to a Physical Server that is properly licensed to Use HP Helion OpenStack&reg; Software.  After assigning this license, you may Use the Software on these Physical Servers in order to create your Development Platform on top of your HP Helion OpenStack Cloud Fabric

**2. Other Terms:**

**a. Trademarks.**  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, you may not distribute the Software or components of the Software using HP trademarks unless permitted to do so under a separate written agreement with HP.

**b. Assigning Licenses:**  Before you can Use the Software to deploy your Development Platform, you must assign the per-Physical Server license to a Physical Server that is already validly licensed to run the HP Helion OpenStack Cloud Fabric. Each Physical Server to which you assign a license is a licensed host server. 

**c. Commercial Service Providers:** You must have an active HP Partner One agreement, Cloud Agile Service Provider agreement, Helion Network agreement or other HP resale or service provider agreement in order to resell Software or provide commercial services using the Software.  If you do not have an active reseller or service provider agreement you may only use the Software for Internal Use purposes.  

**d. Compliance and Audit:**  HP shall have the right to audit the customer's use of the Software at HP's expense and in accordance with any agreement between the parties related to confidentiality.

**e. Confidentiality:** The Software contains confidential and proprietary information of HP (&ldquo;Confidential Information&rdquo;). Customer will hold in confidence and not use or disclose any Confidential Information, except as expressly permitted in the Agreement. To the extent this restriction is not prohibited under applicable law, and except as specifically authorized under in writing by HP, customer shall not disclose to any third party the results of (i) any performance benchmarks you run on the Software, or any portion thereof, or (ii) specific detailed comparisons you make between the Software, or any portion thereof, and any product owned by you or a third-party product.

**f. Copyright Notices:** Customer must reproduce all copyright notices that appear in or on the Software (including documentation) on all permitted copies or adaptions.  Copies of documentation are limited to internal use..

**g. Delivery:** Customer agrees to accept the Software upon receipt.  

**h. Outsourcing Software Management:**  You may install and run the Software on your Physical Servers that are under the day-to-day management and control of third parties, provided all such Physical Servers and other devices are and remain fully dedicated to your use. You are responsible for all of the obligations under this Agreement regardless of the physical location of the hardware upon which the Software is used.

**i. Reassigning Licenses:**  You may not reassign Software licenses to a substitute Physical Server on a short-term basis (within 90 days of the last assignment) unless the licensed Physical Server has been retired due to permanent hardware failure.

**j. Rights to use other versions:**  You may create, store, install, run or access a copy or instance of a prior version of the Software in place of the latest release of the Software. The permitted use of an earlier version does not extend the support lifecycle of the earlier version.

**k. Third Party Licenses:**  You are responsible for complying with all terms of use for any third party software, content, service or website you load, create or access when using the Software.  

**l. Updates and Supplements:**  We may update or supplement the Software. If so, you may use that update or supplement with the Software, subject to any additional terms that accompany the update or supplement.

**m.** The OpenStack word mark and the Square O Design, together or apart, are trademarks or registered trademarks of OpenStack Foundation in the United States and other countries, and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission.


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

## Part 3: Ancillary and Open Source Software for Software ## {#ancilliary}

Additional license authorizations related to ancillary, third party and open source software components are available at:  [HP Helion Development Platform Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements](/helion/openstack/1.1/3rd-party-license-agreements/). 


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>
