---
layout: trial-quick-start-devplatform-10
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial "
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>
function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}
PageRefresh();
</script>

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial {#top}
**Note**: The installation procedure has changed **significantly** from [Helion Development Platform v1.0](/helion/devplatform/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/). 

The Quick Start Developer Trial is the fastest way to evaluate the HP Helion Development Platform for yourself. Download the files, create and configure your sandbox environment, and deploy one or more sample applications. We provide several sample applications to help you get started quickly, but you may also use your own.

To ensure your success, complete the installation steps in the order they are listed below.
You can also [download the instructions in a printable format](/helion/devplatform/HP_Helion_Development_Platform_Quick_Start_Instructions.pdf).

<table>
<tr><td style="background-color: #F0FFFF;">
1. <b>Register for your free Helion Public Cloud Account</b>

</td><td rowspan="7" style="background-color: #F0FFFF;"><b>Register for Your Free Public Cloud Account</b>
<br />
<br />

Register for your <a href="http://www.hpcloud.com/cloud-credit" target="_blank">free trial Helion Public Cloud</a> account to get access to the download repositories.
<br /><br />
<b>Note</b>: While you are asked to provide a credit card during registration, this step is for verification <b>only</b> and the card will not be charged. 
<br /><br />
Keep your Helion Public Cloud username and password handy as you will be asked for them during installation.
<br /><br />
Click the following link when you are ready to continue.
<p style="border: 2px solid blue; padding: 5px;"><u><a href="http://15.184.32.138/helion/devplatform/1.1/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/2">I have registered for my free Public Cloud account and I'm ready to continue.</a></u></p></td></tr>
<tr><td>
2. Download and install the configuration tool (cf-mgmt)
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
3. Create the Sandbox Environment
</td>
<tr><td>
4. Create a Cluster
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
5. Explore Sample Applications
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
6. Termination and Troubleshooting
</td>
</tr></table>
