<style>
.script {
border-style:dotted;
border-width:1px;
border-radius:5px;
padding:5px;
font-family:courier;
}
.comment {
font-color:#}
</style>

---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 2.0 Development Platform: The Marketplace Horizon UI Installation "
permalink: /helion/devplatform/2.0/marketplacehorizonuiinstallation/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 2.0
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: System Engineer
role3: Cloud Administrator
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Application Developer
Role6: Security Engineer
role7: Application Developer 
role8: ISV Developer
role9: Service Developer
authors: Patrick F
SME1: Chris Johnson
SME2: Dominic Vieira

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Installing the Marketplace Horizon UI

The Marketplace is a repository where teams can download the latest services they need to accelerate development of their applications. 

This document shows how to update the Marketplace service by adding the Horizon UI.

## Step 1: Retrieve the Marketplace Service Update from CODN

Use the **Helion Development Platform UI** to check CODN for a new Service Update for Marketplace.

If there is a new Service Update for Marketplace, retrieve it from CODN. This will retrieve the Marketplace package from CODN and push it into a container in Swift within your local cloud.

## Step 2: Install the Marketplace Service

### Preparation

You will need the following pieces of information in order to run the Marketplace Service Update.

<table width="100%">
  <tr><th><p>Identifier</p></th><th><p>Description</p></th></tr>
  <tr><td><p>BASE_NODE_IP</p></td><td><p>The IP address of the base node for your Helion installation.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>SEED_NODE_IP</p></td><td><p>The IP address of the seed node for your Helion installation.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>USERNAME</p></td><td><p>The username of a cloud admin that has rights to perform an HDP Marketplace Service Update.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>PASSWORD</p></td><td><p>The password of a cloud admin that has rights to perform an HDP Marketplace Service Update.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>HEAT_ADMIN_KEY</p></td><td><p>The private key file for the <strong>heat-admin</strong> user. <br />
Usually available within the root user account on the seed node here: ~/.ssh/id_rsa</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>CONTAINER_NAME</p></td><td><p>The Swift container that contains the Marketplace service update. <br />
Defaults to <strong>murano-dashboard-horizon-ui</strong>.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME</p></td><td><p>The filename of the Marketplace service update. <br />
This can typically can be found inside the above container in Swift.</p></td></tr>
</table>

### Let's get to it!

a) SSH to the seed node of your cloud:

<div class="script">
# SSH to the base node <br />
ssh USERNAME@BASE_NODE_IP<br />
<br />
# Become root<br />
sudo su (will prompt for password)<br />
<br />
# SSH to the seed node <br />
ssh SEED_NODE_IP

</div>

b) Ensure your environment has the proper credentials to perform the download from Swift:

<div class="script">
# overcloud credentials needed here <br />
source admin_over_creds
</div>

c) Use the Swift client to download the Service Update:

<div class="script">
# List the contents of the Swift container <br />
swift list murano-dashboard-horizon-ui <br />
<br />
# Take note of the name of the file within the container <br />
# ex: SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz <br />
<br />
# Download the installation file <br />
swift download CONTAINER_NAME SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME <br />
</div>

d) Once the file is downloaded, unzip/tar the file:

<div class="script">
tar -zxvf SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz <br />
</div>

e) Go to the newly created folder and execute the install script, passing in the location of the private key of the <strong>heat-admin</strong> account:

<div class="script">
# Source undercloud creds <br />
source admin_under_creds <br />
<br />
# Fire up the install!
cd SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME <br />
./install.sh HEAT_ADMIN_KEY <br />
</div>

## Step 3: Configure the service

Return to the **Helion Development Platform UI** and click on "Configure" to configure the service.
 ----


