<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2502">
<title>HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Release Notes for HP Helion Development Platform 1.2</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p><!--PUBLISHED--><!--./devplatform/1.2devplatform.release-notes.md--><!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/release-notes/--></p>
    <p>The following release notes are for the HP Helion Development Platform 1.3 released in August
      2015. We hope you enjoy the release!</p>
    <section id="DPnotes">
      <title>Release Notes</title>
      <p>The following features have been changed in HP Helion Development Platform 1.3:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Docker Image Deployment</dt>
          <dd><xref href="helion/user/deploy/languages/docker_apps.dita">Deploying Docker Images as apps</xref>
            provides an alternative to the usual method of application deployment, which is driven
            by buildpacks. Administrators control user permissions and which registries and images
            are allowed. Local ALS caching registry servers share Docker image layers to improve
            deployment efficiency. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Updated Buildpacks</dt>
          <dd> The <xref href="helion/user/deploy/1.2index.dita#topic1693/languages"
              >buildpacks</xref> have all been updated, including Ruby (2.1.5) and Docker
            (1.5).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Updated Source</dt>
          <dd>This release includes a merge from Cloud Foundry v205.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>New Feature Flags</dt>
          <dd>More <xref
              href="helion/admin/console/console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/feature-flags"
              >fine-grained Admin permission controls</xref> are now available.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>New Kato command</dt>
          <dd><codeph>op regenerate <xref
                href="helion/admin/reference/1.2kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-op-regenerate"
                >authorized_keys</xref></codeph></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Known Issues for 1.3</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>UTM or Gateway Firewalls</dt>
          <dd>UTM (Unified Threat Management) or Gateway firewalls may interfere with upgrades,
            patches, or normal application staging if they are configured to inspect all HTTP(S)
            traffic between ALS nodes and upstream package repositories. <xref
              href="helion/admin/cluster/1.2index.dita#topic18326/utm">See the full
              documentation</xref> for a detailed explanation and suggested solutions.</dd>
        </dlentry><dlentry>
          <dt>Harbor (Port Service) Node Configuration </dt>
          <dd>The optional <xref href="helion/admin/cluster/1.2harbor.dita">Harbor TCP/UDP port
            service</xref> must be set up on a node with a public network interface if you wish to enable
            port forwarding for user applications. The security group or firewall settings for this
            node should make the configured port range accessible publicly.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
<section>
      <p>The following features have been changed in HP Helion Development Platform 1.2:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Develop, deploy, and manage cloud-native .NET applications</dt>
          <dd>HP is the only vendor to offer this functionality in today's Cloud Foundry technology
            v2, which is a key part of HP Helion Development Platform. We offer Windows support by
            providing the ability to host Windows applications on a Windows DEA (Droplet Execution
            Agent) with a "bring your own Windows license" model.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Microsoft SQL Server integration available as an application service</dt>
          <dd>Developers can bind their applications to a Microsoft SQL Server database via the
            service model and enable self-service dispensing of database resources - eliminating the
            need for administrative or operator intervention.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Complete set of .NET development tools and SDKs</dt>
          <dd>The addition of the Visual Studio Cloud Foundry Explorer and MS Build tasks enable the
            .NET enterprise developer to deploy and manage their application directly from the
            favorite development IDE, command line environment or build agent.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Horizon panel updates for IT operations</dt>
          <dd>Administrators can now run even more operations from the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg"
              >OpenStack</tm> Horizon management console, including renaming clusters, adding DEA
            nodes, adding roles, proxy support and DNS suffixes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="known">
      <title>Known Issues for 1.2</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>When creating a new database, <i>cf-mgmt</i>
            <i>create cluster</i> or <i>add-service</i> command fails.</dt>
          <dd>This issue applies to HP Helion Public Cloud only. When using <i>cf-mgmt create
              cluster</i> or <i>add-service</i> commands to create a new database, the operation
            fails. There is no workaround at this time.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> DEA and SQL Server services are not available through
            the ALS Management Console</dt>
          <dd>Although it appears that you can complete these tasks using the ALS Management
            Console, you must use the <xref href="helion/CLI/1.2ALS_Client_Reference.dita">
              <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool</xref> or the Horizon console to add <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm>
            DEA Nodes and SQL Server services.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Windows Nodes do not support Linux services</dt>
          <dd>Linux services - for example, <i>redis</i> or <i>mySQL</i> - can not be added to <tm
              tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> nodes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
