<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5490">
<title>HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Documentation</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.2"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.2"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/1.2devplatform.index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/--></p>

  <p>Welcome! The HP Helion Development Platform is a Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) that helps
      developers build great cloud-native applications across private and public clouds. Based on
        <xref href="http://cloudfoundry.org/" scope="external" format="html"><tm
          tmtype="tm">Cloud Foundry</tm></xref> and fully integrated with <xref
        href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.index.dita">HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm></xref>, the HP Helion Development Platform is open and interoperable,
      ensuring that developers can focus on building the right app for any environment.</p>
<section id="platform-overview"> <title>Platform Overview</title>
<p>The Helion Development Platform is a Cloud Foundry-based, managed runtime environment for applications.</p>
<ul>
  <li>It supports <xref href="1.2devplatform.appdev.dita#topic2457/java" >Java</xref>, <xref href="1.2devplatform.appdev.dita#topic2457/node" >Node</xref>, <xref href="1.2devplatform.appdev.dita#topic2457/PHP" type="section">PHP</xref>, and other language runtimes.</li>
<li>It provides easy access to services like MySQL, PostgreSQL, RabbitMQ, and Memcache.</li>
<li>It allows Disk, Memory and Placement Zone constraints to be set per application.</li>
<li>It provides auto-scaling and application log drains.</li>
</ul>
  <p>The Application Lifecycle Service is <xref
          href="installation/devplatform_install_ALS.dita">installed</xref> as
        part of the Helion Development Platform. You can easily <xref
          href="helion/admin/1.2index.dita#topic2276/wizard-based-cluster-creation" type="section">create and configure</xref> Application Lifecycle Service clusters from
        the Horizon management console, or explore this service by setting up a <xref
          href="1.2devplatform.ALS-developer-trial-quick-start.dita">Quick
          Start Developer Trial</xref> in the public cloud.</p>
<p>Helion Development Platform version 1.2 includes a full end-to-end solution for creating and deploying .NET  applications. Windows developers can now leverage their knowledge and use the tools they are accustomed to in order to leverage the power of the Helion Development Platform. For more information on Windows and .NET support, see the <xref href="windows/windows_overview.dita" >Windows Overview</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="application-services"> <title>Application Services</title>
<p>The HP Helion Development Platform provides additional Application Services that integrate into the Application Lifecycle Service. These currently include:</p>
</section>
<section id="database-as-a-service"> <title>Database as a Service</title>
<p>The <xref href="1.2devplatform.database-instance.dita" >Database as a Service (DBaaS)</xref> provides lifecycle services for MySQL database instances. Lifecycle services includes provisioning, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and monitoring that can be administered from either a CLI interface, RESTful APIs or the Horizon dashboard.</p>
<ul>
<li>An implementation of <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Trove" scope="external" format="html" >OpenStack Trove</xref>, <xref href="1.2devplatform.database-instance.dita" >Database as a Service</xref> provides scalable and reliable cloud database provisioning functionality for both relational and non-relational databases.  </li>
<li>The Database service provides a simple and easy way to access and utilize features in a database without the overhead of administration.  </li>
</ul>
  <p>The <xref href="1.2devplatform.database-ALS.dita" >Database as a Service</xref> is optionally <xref href="installation/devplatform_install_database.dita">installed and configured</xref> as part of the Helion Development Platform. If not installed as part of the platform, you can install it and then configure it for <xref href="1.2devplatform.database-ALS.dita" >use from within the Application Lifecycle Service</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="messaging-service"> <title>Messaging Service</title>
<p>The <xref href="1.2devplatform.using-the-messaging-service.dita" >Messaging Service</xref>  provides developers with the ability to provision RabbitMQ clusters using a wizard-based UI directly from Horizon.</p>
<ul>
<li>The Messaging Service integrates with <xref href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-identity-overview.dita" >Keystone</xref> to remove the need to create separate credentials for RabbitMQ access. </li>
<li>The Messaging Service allows developers to focus on building their apps without worrying about installing, configuring, and troubleshooting RabbitMQ.</li>
</ul>
<p>The Messaging Service is optionally installed as part of the Helion Development Platform. If not
        installed as part of the platform, you can <xref
          href="installation/devplatform_install_messaging.dita">install</xref> it and then <xref
          href="1.2devplatform.using-the-messaging-service.dita"
          >configure</xref> it for <xref
          href="1.2devplatform.using-messaging-service-with-ALS.dita">use from
          within the Application Lifecycle Service</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-marketplace"> <title>The Marketplace</title>
<p>The <xref href="installation/devplatform_install_marketplace.dita" >Marketplace</xref> is a product catalog that will be used to deliver the best of breed applications and services required to support world-class, enterprise-grade applications.</p>
<ul>
<li>It automates installation and enablement of supported applications and services.</li>
<li>Includes instructions for installing an instance of Vertica Community Edition.</li>
</ul>
  <p>The Marketplace is optionally installed as part of the Helion Development Platform. You can <xref href="installation/devplatform_install_marketplace.dita">install</xref> and use it to easily install applications to accelerate your development efforts.</p>
</section>
<section id="platform-tools"> <title>Platform Tools</title>
<p>The Helion Development Platform is accessible via the following tools:</p>
<p>
        <b><xref href="helion/user/reference/1.2client-ref.dita#topic13355" type="section" >Helion Command-Line
            Interface (CLI)</xref></b>
      </p>
<p>Use the Helion CLI to deploy your app to the development platform through the command line. <xref
  href="helion/user/client/1.2index.dita#topic3165/helion-client-setup"
          >Setup</xref> instructions are available for here both <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> and
        Unix/Mac operating systems.</p>
<p>
<b>Eclipse Plugin</b>

 If your developers work in the Eclipse IDE, <xref href="1.2devplatform.eclipse.dita" >install and use</xref> the Eclipse plug-in to quickly configure the Helion Development Platform as a deployment target for your app.</p>
</section>
<section id="installation-options"> <title>Installation Options</title>
<p>Most of the Helion Development Platform documentation assumes that you've already provisioned an environment where you can deploy your apps. There are two ways to deploy Development Platform technology:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Quick Start Developer Trial</b>: The fastest way to set up a functional Helion Development Platform environment is the <xref href="1.2devplatform.ALS-developer-trial-quick-start.dita" >Quick Start Developer Trial</xref> (sandbox) on the public cloud.</li>
<li>
  <b>Standard Installation</b>: Install an <xref
    href="../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.index.dita">HP Helion OpenStack</xref> cloud and then <xref href="installation/devplatform_commercial_install.dita" >install</xref> the Helion Development Platform.  </li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
