---
layout: default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: The ALS Horizon UI Installation "
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/alshorizonuiinstallation/
product: devplatform
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.2
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: System Engineer
role3: Cloud Administrator
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Application Developer
Role6: Security Engineer
role7: Application Developer 
role8: ISV Developer
role9: Service Developer
authors: Patrick F
SME1: Chris Johnson
SME2: Dominic Vieira

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->



# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Installing the ALS Horizon UI

The [Application Lifecycle Service (ALS)](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/) is a Cloud Foundry-based, managed runtime environment for applications. 

This document shows how to update the Application Lifestyle Service by adding the Horizon UI.

## Step 1: Retrieve the ALS Service Update from CODN

Use the **Helion Development Platform UI** to check CODN for a new Service Update for ALS.

**NOTE:** Be sure that the "Admin" project is checked (check mark beside it) from the Project selector before you check for service updates. The Project selector is located at the top of the page to the right of the OpenStack logo.

If there is a new Service Update for ALS, retrieve it from CODN. This will retrieve the ALS package from CODN and push it into a container in Swift within your local cloud.

## Step 2: Install the ALS Service Update

### Preparation

You will need the following pieces of information in order to run the ALS Service Update.

<table width="100%">
  <tr><th><p>Identifier</p></th><th><p>Description</p></th></tr>
  <tr><td><p>BASE_NODE_IP</p></td><td><p>The IP address of the base node for your Helion installation.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>SEED_NODE_IP</p></td><td><p>The IP address of the seed node for your Helion installation.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>USERNAME</p></td><td><p>The username of a cloud admin that has rights to perform an HDP ALS Service Update.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>PASSWORD</p></td><td><p>The password of a cloud admin that has rights to perform an HDP ALS Service Update.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>HEAT_ADMIN_KEY</p></td><td><p>The private key file for the <strong>heat-admin</strong> user. <br />
Usually available within the root user account on the seed node here: ~/.ssh/id_rsa</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>CONTAINER_NAME</p></td><td><p>The Swift container that contains the ALS service update. <br />
Defaults to <strong>als-horizon-ui</strong>.</p></td></tr>
  <tr><td><p>SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME</p></td><td><p>The filename of the ALS service update. <br />
This can typically can be found inside the above container in Swift.</p></td></tr>
</table>

### Let's get to it!

a) SSH to the seed node of your cloud:

<pre>
# SSH to the base node 
ssh USERNAME@BASE_NODE_IP

# Become root
sudo su (will prompt for password)

# SSH to the seed node 
ssh SEED_NODE_IP
</pre>

b) Ensure your environment has the proper credentials to perform the download from Swift:

<pre>
# Source the overcloud credentials to reach Swift 
export TE_DATAFILE="/root/tripleo/ce_env.json"
source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/overcloudrc
</pre>

c) Use the Swift client to download the Service Update:

<pre>
# List the contents of the Swift container
swift list als-horizon-ui
 
# Take note of the name of the file within the container
# ex: SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz
 
# Download the installation file
swift download CONTAINER_NAME SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME
</pre>

d) Once the file is downloaded, unzip/tar the file:

<pre>
tar -zxvf SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz
</pre>

e) Go to the newly created folder and execute the install script, passing in the location of the private key of the <strong>heat-admin</strong> account:

<pre>
# Source undercloud creds from the same location as the overcloudrc
source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/undercloudrc
 
# Fire up the install!
cd SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME
./install.sh HEAT_ADMIN_KEY 
</pre>

## Step 3: Configure the service

Return to the **Helion Development Platform UI** and click on "Configure" to configure the service.
 ----


