[See version 1.1 of this page](/)
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4474">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Common Server Operations</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0operations.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/admin/server/operations/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/server-status">Server Status</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/starting-and-stopping-roles">Starting and Stopping Roles</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/system-shutdown">System Shutdown</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/setting-the-time-zone">Setting the Time Zone</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/resetting-the-vm">Resetting the VM</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/monitoring-the-helion-server">Monitoring The Application Lifecycle Service Server</xref>        -   <xref type="section" href="#topic4474/management-console">Management Console</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/new-relic">New Relic</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/creating-an-admin-user">Creating an Admin User</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/system-monitoring-with-nagios">System Monitoring with Nagios</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4474/server-backup-import-and-export">Server Backup, Import, and Export</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="server-status"> <title>Server Status</title>
<p>To check the status of Application Lifecycle Service:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato status
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This will list all the roles configured to run on the VM, and whether
they are running, stopped, or starting.</p>
<p>Roles are logical groups of processes (see <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-role-info" >kato role info</xref>) which can be inspected individually with <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-process-list" >kato process
...</xref> commands.</p>
<p>In particular, the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-process-ready" >kato process ready</xref> command is useful for determining if the system is in a state to receive <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0configuration.dita#server-configuration" >configuration commands</xref>. For example, to check that all processes for the configured roles are ready:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato process ready all
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="starting-and-stopping-roles"> <title>Starting and Stopping Roles</title>
<p>To control the Application Lifecycle Service roles, use the <i>kato</i> start,
stop and restart commands:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato stop
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Without any further options the operation applies to all Application Lifecycle Service roles.
To start, stop or restart individual roles, specify them after the
desired command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato stop mysql
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="system-shutdown"> <title>System Shutdown</title>
<p>To safely shut down the VM, run the <i>shutdown</i> command as root:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>sudo shutdown -h now
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="setting-the-time-zone"> <title>Setting the Time Zone</title>
<p>At first boot, the time zone of the Application Lifecycle Service VM is set to UTC. To set this to your local time zone, use the <codeph>kato op set_timezone</codeph> command. When run without arguments, the command will prompt
for time zone selection, but the time zone can be set non-interactively
with the <codeph>--timezone</codeph> option. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato op set_timezone --timezone America/Chicago
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>You can also use the <codeph>tzselect</codeph> command to find the
appropriate time zone string for your location.</p>
</section>
<section id="resetting-the-vm"> <title>Resetting the VM</title>
<p>If you would like to return an Application Lifecycle Service VM to its original
"out-of-the-box" configuration, use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-attach" >
<i>kato node reset</i>
</xref> command. This command has two options:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<codeph>kato node reset factory</codeph>: Resets everything.
The host will behave as it did on first boot (creating a new
randomized hostname and starting as a micro cloud with no configured
users). Shutdown the VM after running this command. The primary use
for this command is to prepare a running VM to be cloned by removing
stale data/configuration.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<codeph>kato node reset soft</codeph>: Resets only
configuration and data, but leaves first boot (naming) or other
state info. You would normally run this together with the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-attach" >
<i>kato
node
setup</i>
</xref>
command. For example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>kato node reset soft
kato node setup micro
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="monitoring-the-application-lifecycle-service-server"> <title>Monitoring The Application Lifecycle Service Server</title>
</section>
<section id="management-console"> <title>Management Console</title>
<p>The <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/console/1.0index.dita#management-console" >
<i>Management Console</i>
</xref> has a Settings page that allows an administrator to monitor the server component and services, and restart or stop services as necessary.</p>
</section>
<section id="new-relic"> <title>New Relic</title>
<p>Please see <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.0index.dita#bestpractices-nrsysmond" >
<i>New Relic Server Monitoring</i>
</xref>. New Relic can also be used to <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0newrelic.dita#newrelic" >monitor apps</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="creating-an-admin-user"> <title>Creating an Admin User</title>
<p>The easiest way to add admin users to Application Lifecycle Service is via the Management
Console under <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.0customize.dita#console-users" >Users</xref>. The Management Console will prompt to create the initial admin user the first time you use it.</p>
<p>If you do not have access to the Management Console, create a user by logging in to the micro cloud or Core node controller via SSH or through the VM <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0glossary.dita#term-tty-console" >tty console</xref> as the <i>helion</i> user and run <i>helion register</i>:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.helion-xxxx.local
helion register superuser@example.net
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Grant administrative privileges using <i>kato config</i>:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato config push cloud_controller_ng admins superuser@example.net
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Subsequent new users can be added remotely with the Helion client by an admin user.</p>
</section>
<section id="system-monitoring-with-nagios"> <title>System Monitoring with Nagios</title>
<p>If Nagios is installed on your server nodes, you can use it to monitor
and report resource utilization. See the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.0index.dita#bestpractices-nagios" >Best Practices</xref> documentation for details.</p>
</section>
<section id="server-backup-import-and-export"> <title>Server Backup, Import, and Export</title>
<p>The import and export functionality can be used to do regular backups,
or to move the Application Lifecycle Service configuration from one server to another. It is also a means of upgrading the Application Lifecycle Service VM without having to install everything from the ground up.</p>
<p>Please see the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.0index.dita#bestpractices-controller-migration" >Best Practices</xref> documentation for details on how to <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.0index.dita#bestpractices-migration-export" >export</xref> and <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.0index.dita#bestpractices-migration-import" >import</xref> your data.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
