
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4886">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Upgrading Application Lifecycle Service</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.0upgrade.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/admin/server/upgrade/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service 1.0 provides the ability to upgrade a node or cluster in place
via <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade" >
<i>kato node
upgrade</i>
</xref>
without the need to rebuild the entire cluster. This section covers how
the upgrade process works.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/before-an-upgrade">Before an upgrade</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/maintenance-mode">Maintenance Mode</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/proxy-settings">Proxy settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/rsa-keys">RSA keys</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/executing-the-upgrade">Executing the upgrade</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/upgrading-an-individual-node">Upgrading an individual node</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/upgrading-a-cluster">Upgrading a cluster</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/node-upgrade-ordering">Node upgrade ordering</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4886/node-upgrade-process">Node Upgrade Process</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="before-an-upgrade"> <title>Before an upgrade</title>
</section>
<section id="maintenance-mode"> <title>Maintenance Mode</title>
<p>Before beginning an upgrade, put Application Lifecycle Service in maintenance mode in the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.0customize.dita#console-settings-maintenance-mode" >
<i>Cloud Controller
Settings</i>
</xref> or
the following <codeph>kato</codeph> command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>$ kato config set cloud_controller_ng maintenance_mode true
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This shuts down API requests but continues to serve web requests. The Management Console becomes "read only" with the exception of this toggle so that it can be brought back online. Remember to disable maintenance mode once the upgrade has been completed.</p>
</section>
<section id="proxy-settings"> <title>Proxy settings</title>
<p>The systems being upgraded will need to be able to access the following
public URIs:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://upgrade.helion.com/" scope="external" format="html" >https://upgrade.helion.com</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://pkg.helion.com/" scope="external" format="html" >https://pkg.helion.com</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>This may require setting the HTTPS_PROXY environment variable on each
node if a proxy is in use on your network.</p>
</section>
<section id="rsa-keys"> <title>RSA keys</title>
<p>For cluster upgrades, you should <xref href="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Configuring#disable-password-authentication" scope="external" format="html" >set up SSH keys for password-less
authentication</xref>
between the Core node and all other cluster nodes. Without this, you
will be prompted for the 'helion' system user password multiple times
for each node.</p>
</section>
<section id="executing-the-upgrade"> <title>Executing the upgrade</title>
</section>
<section id="upgrading-an-individual-node"> <title>Upgrading an individual node</title>
<p>To upgrade an individual node, log into the node and run:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>$ kato node upgrade
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This will start the <b>Node Upgrade Process</b> as described below.</p>
</section>
<section id="upgrading-a-cluster"> <title>Upgrading a cluster</title>
<p>To upgrade a cluster, log into the Core node in the cluster and run:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>$ kato node upgrade --cluster
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This will automatically arrange the nodes in the cluster into a
preferred upgrade order (see below) before upgrading the nodes one at a
time.</p>
</section>
<section id="node-upgrade-ordering"> <title>Node upgrade ordering</title>
<p>When performing a cluster upgrade, the nodes in the cluster are
automatically arranged into an upgrade order based on the roles they
have enabled. This order is then followed when upgrading nodes.</p>
<p>The default role order is:</p>
<ul>
<li>DEA</li>
<li>controller</li>
<li>router</li>
<li>base</li>
<li>primary</li>
</ul>
<p>Nodes are matched to this ordering by the roles they have enabled. Any
nodes that don't match (e.g. data service nodes) are added to the end to
be upgraded last.</p>
<p>The order can be overridden with the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade" >
<i>--role-order</i>
</xref>
option.</p>
</section>
<section id="node-upgrade-process"> <title>Node Upgrade Process</title>
<p>Each node goes through the following process during an upgrade.</p>
<ol>
<li>Self-update</li>
<li>Application Lifecycle Service version check</li>
<li>Pre-upgrade validation</li>
<li>Retire (DEA nodes only)</li>
<li>Backup state</li>
<li>Upgrade</li>
<li>Post-upgrade validation</li>
<li>Node restart</li>
</ol>
<p>Before any upgrade actions are performed, <codeph>kato node upgrade</codeph> performs a self-update check to make sure it is running the
latest code available. After this base check, the version of Application Lifecycle Service
running on the node is checked against the latest version available. If
a newer version of Application Lifecycle Service is available (or if the <codeph>--force</codeph> option was used) the upgrade process begins.</p>
<p>
  <b>Note</b>
</p>
<p>Using the <codeph>--force</codeph> option is not recommended unless
you have been directed to do so by HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.</p>
<p>A pre-upgrade validation check is performed on the node to check that it
is in working order before any upgrade actions are performed. If this
validation fails then the upgrade process is stopped. These validation
steps can be displayed to the user as errors while still continuing the
upgrade process by using the <codeph>--ignore-inspect-failures</codeph> option.</p>
<p>
  <b>Warning</b>
</p>
<p>Use this option is only if you get failures running
<codeph>kato node inspect</codeph> that are known to be caused by
systems outside of the control of Application Lifecycle Service, or if directed by
HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.</p>
<p>Next, the upgrade packages are downloaded and a validation check is
performed on the files to make sure everything required for an upgrade
is available. If the node is a DEA it is then
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.0kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-retire" >
<i>retired</i>
</xref> to
make sure any applications running on the node are evacuated before the
upgrade takes place.</p>
<p>After the components have been upgraded, the node is restarted and then
post-upgrade validation takes place. If any failures occur, the upgrade
process is stopped and you will be given the option to roll back
the upgrade. As with the pre-upgrade validation, this can be skipped
using the <codeph>--ignore-inspect-failures</codeph> option (see
warning above).</p>
<p>When <codeph>kato node upgrade</codeph> completes successfully, the
node is restarted running the latest version of Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<p>Remember to take the node out of maintenance mode after the upgrade.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
