---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /als/v1/admin/server/upgrade/
product: devplatform
title: "Upgrading Application Lifecycle Service"
---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Upgrading Application Lifecycle Service[](#upgrading-helion "Permalink to this headline")
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/upgrade/)
=======================================================================
 [Before an upgrade](#before-an-upgrade)
        -   [Maintenance Mode](#maintenance-mode)
        -   [Proxy settings](#proxy-settings)
        -   [RSA keys](#rsa-keys)
    -   [Executing the upgrade](#executing-the-upgrade)
        -   [Upgrading an individual
            node](#upgrading-an-individual-node)
        -   [Upgrading a cluster](#upgrading-a-cluster)
        -   [Node upgrade ordering](#node-upgrade-ordering)
        -   [Node Upgrade Process](#node-upgrade-process)

Application Lifecycle Service 1.0 provides the ability to upgrade a node or cluster in place
via [*kato node
upgrade*](/als/v1/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade)
without the need to rebuild the entire cluster. This section covers how
the upgrade process works.

Before an upgrade[](#before-an-upgrade "Permalink to this headline")
---------------------------------------------------------------------

### Maintenance Mode[](#maintenance-mode "Permalink to this headline")

Before beginning an upgrade, put Application Lifecycle Service in maintenance mode in the
[*Cloud Controller
Settings*](/als/v1/admin/console/customize/#console-settings-maintenance-mode) or
the following `kato` command:

    $ kato config set cloud_controller_ng maintenance_mode true

This shuts down API requests but continues to serve web requests. The Management Console becomes "read only" with the exception of this toggle so that it can be brought back online. Remember to disable maintenance mode once the upgrade has been completed.

### Proxy settings[](#proxy-settings "Permalink to this headline")

The systems being upgraded will need to be able to access the following
public URIs:

-   [https://upgrade.helion.com](https://upgrade.helion.com/)
-   [https://pkg.helion.com](https://pkg.helion.com/)

This may require setting the HTTPS\_PROXY environment variable on each
node if a proxy is in use on your network.

### RSA keys[](#rsa-keys "Permalink to this headline")

For cluster upgrades, you should [set up SSH keys for password-less
authentication](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Configuring#disable-password-authentication)
between the Core node and all other cluster nodes. Without this, you
will be prompted for the 'helion' system user password multiple times
for each node.

Executing the upgrade[](#executing-the-upgrade "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Upgrading an individual node[](#upgrading-an-individual-node "Permalink to this headline")

To upgrade an individual node, log into the node and run:

    $ kato node upgrade

This will start the **Node Upgrade Process** as described below.

### Upgrading a cluster[](#upgrading-a-cluster "Permalink to this headline")

To upgrade a cluster, log into the Core node in the cluster and run:

    $ kato node upgrade --cluster

This will automatically arrange the nodes in the cluster into a
preferred upgrade order (see below) before upgrading the nodes one at a
time.

### Node upgrade ordering[](#node-upgrade-ordering "Permalink to this headline")

When performing a cluster upgrade, the nodes in the cluster are
automatically arranged into an upgrade order based on the roles they
have enabled. This order is then followed when upgrading nodes.

The default role order is:

-   DEA
-   controller
-   router
-   base
-   primary

Nodes are matched to this ordering by the roles they have enabled. Any
nodes that don't match (e.g. data service nodes) are added to the end to
be upgraded last.

The order can be overridden with the
[*--role-order*](/als/v1/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade)
option.

### Node Upgrade Process[](#node-upgrade-process "Permalink to this headline")

Each node goes through the following process during an upgrade.

1.  Self-update
2.  Application Lifecycle Service version check
3.  Pre-upgrade validation
4.  Retire (DEA nodes only)
5.  Backup state
6.  Upgrade
7.  Post-upgrade validation
8.  Node restart

Before any upgrade actions are performed, `kato node upgrade` performs a self-update check to make sure it is running the
latest code available. After this base check, the version of Application Lifecycle Service
running on the node is checked against the latest version available. If
a newer version of Application Lifecycle Service is available (or if the `--force` option was used) the upgrade process begins.

**Note**

Using the `--force` option is not recommended unless
you have been directed to do so by HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.

A pre-upgrade validation check is performed on the node to check that it
is in working order before any upgrade actions are performed. If this
validation fails then the upgrade process is stopped. These validation
steps can be displayed to the user as errors while still continuing the
upgrade process by using the `--ignore-inspect-failures` option.

**Warning**

Use this option is only if you get failures running
`kato node inspect` that are known to be caused by
systems outside of the control of Application Lifecycle Service, or if directed by
HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.

Next, the upgrade packages are downloaded and a validation check is
performed on the files to make sure everything required for an upgrade
is available. If the node is a DEA it is then
[*retired*](/als/v1/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-node-retire) to
make sure any applications running on the node are evacuated before the
upgrade takes place.

After the components have been upgraded, the node is restarted and then
post-upgrade validation takes place. If any failures occur, the upgrade
process is stopped and you will be given the option to roll back
the upgrade. As with the pre-upgrade validation, this can be skipped
using the `--ignore-inspect-failures` option (see
warning above).

When `kato node upgrade` completes successfully, the
node is restarted running the latest version of Application Lifecycle Service.

Remember to take the node out of maintenance mode after the upgrade.
