---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/operations/
product: devplatform
title: "Common Server Operations"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: ISV Developer 
role3: Service Developer
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Systems Administrator 
role6: Security Engineer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Common Server Operations {#common-server-operations}
[See version 1.0 of this page](/als/v1/admin/server/operations/)


- [Server Status](#server-status)
- [Starting and Stopping Roles](#starting-and-stopping-roles)
-   [System Shutdown](#system-shutdown)
-   [Setting the Time Zone](#setting-the-time-zone)
-   [Resetting the VM](#resetting-the-vm)
-   [Monitoring The Application Lifecycle Service Server](#monitoring-the-helion-server)        -   [Management Console](#management-console)
-   [New Relic](#new-relic)
-   [Creating an Admin User](#creating-an-admin-user)
-   [System Monitoring with Nagios](#system-monitoring-with-nagios)
-   [Server Backup, Import, and Export](#server-backup-import-and-export)

Server Status[](#server-status "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------

To check the status of Application Lifecycle Service:

    kato status

This will list all the roles configured to run on the VM, and whether
they are running, stopped, or starting.

Roles are logical groups of processes (see [kato role info](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-role-info)) which can be inspected individually with [kato process
...](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-process-list) commands.

In particular, the [kato process ready](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-process-ready) command is useful for determining if the system is in a state to receive [configuration commands](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/configuration/#server-configuration). For example, to check that all processes for the configured roles are ready:

    kato process ready all

### Starting and Stopping Roles[](#starting-and-stopping-roles "Permalink to this headline")

To control the Application Lifecycle Service roles, use the *kato* start,
stop and restart commands:

    kato stop

Without any further options the operation applies to all Application Lifecycle Service roles.
To start, stop or restart individual roles, specify them after the
desired command:

    kato stop mysql

### System Shutdown[](#system-shutdown "Permalink to this headline")

To safely shut down the VM, run the *shutdown* command as root:

    sudo shutdown -h now

Setting the Time Zone[](#setting-the-time-zone "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

At first boot, the time zone of the Application Lifecycle Service VM is set to UTC. To set this to your local time zone, use the `kato op set_timezone` command. When run without arguments, the command will prompt
for time zone selection, but the time zone can be set non-interactively
with the `--timezone` option. For example:

    kato op set_timezone --timezone America/Chicago

You can also use the `tzselect` command to find the
appropriate time zone string for your location.

Resetting the VM[](#resetting-the-vm "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------------

If you would like to return an Application Lifecycle Service VM to its original
"out-of-the-box" configuration, use the [*kato node reset*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-node-attach) command. This command has two options:

-   `kato node reset factory`: Resets everything.
    The host will behave as it did on first boot (creating a new
    randomized hostname and starting as a micro cloud with no configured
    users). Shutdown the VM after running this command. The primary use
    for this command is to prepare a running VM to be cloned by removing
    stale data/configuration.

-   `kato node reset soft`: Resets only
    configuration and data, but leaves first boot (naming) or other
    state info. You would normally run this together with the [*kato
    node
    setup*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-node-attach)
    command. For example:

        kato node reset soft
        kato node setup micro

Monitoring The Application Lifecycle Service Server[](#monitoring-the-helion-server "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Management Console[](#management-console "Permalink to this headline")

The [*Management Console*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/console/#management-console) has a Settings page that allows an administrator to monitor the server component and services, and restart or stop services as necessary.

### New Relic[](#new-relic "Permalink to this headline")

Please see [*New Relic Server Monitoring*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-nrsysmond). New Relic can also be used to [monitor apps](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/newrelic/#newrelic).

### Creating an Admin User[](#creating-an-admin-user "Permalink to this headline")

The easiest way to add admin users to Application Lifecycle Service is via the Management
Console under [Users](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/customize/#console-users). The Management Console will prompt to create the initial admin user the first time you use it.

If you do not have access to the Management Console, create a user by logging in to the micro cloud or Core node controller via SSH or through the VM [tty console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-tty-console) as the *helion* user and run *helion register*:

    helion target api.helion-xxxx.local
    helion register superuser@example.net

Grant administrative privileges using *kato config*:

    kato config push cloud_controller_ng admins superuser@example.net

Subsequent new users can be added remotely with the Helion client by an admin user.

### System Monitoring with Nagios[](#system-monitoring-with-nagios "Permalink to this headline")

If Nagios is installed on your server nodes, you can use it to monitor
and report resource utilization. See the [Best Practices](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-nagios) documentation for details.

## Server Backup, Import, and Export[](#server-backup-import-and-export "Permalink to this headline")

The import and export functionality can be used to do regular backups,
or to move the Application Lifecycle Service configuration from one server to another. It is also a means of upgrading the Application Lifecycle Service VM without having to install everything from the ground up.

Please see the [Best Practices](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-controller-migration) documentation for details on how to [export](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-migration-export) and [import](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-migration-import) your data.
