---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/router/
product: devplatform
title: "P Helion 1.1 Development Platform: ALS Router"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: ISV Developer 
role3: Service Developer
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Systems Administrator 
role6: Security Engineer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: ALS Router[](#index-1 "Permalink to this headline")
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/als/v1/admin/server/router/)
The Application Lifecycle Service Router role manages HTTP and HTTPS traffic between web clients and application instances. In conjunction with the Cloud
Controller, it maps application URLs to the corresponding application
instances running in Linux containers on DEA nodes, distributing load
between multiple instances (containers) as required.

- [Settings](#settings)
- [WebSockets](#websockets)
- [SPDY](#router-spdy)

Application Lifecycle Service's default router ('router2g') supports
[WebSocket](http://www.websocket.org/aboutwebsocket) (including
"wss://" secure web sockets) and [SPDY](http://www.chromium.org/spdy).

## Settings {#settings}
The Router is configured using [*kato config*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/kato-ref/#kato-command-ref-config). The following settings are configurable:

**client\_inactivity\_timeout**: time (in seconds) the router waits
for idle clients (default 1200 seconds). To change this:

    kato config set router2g client_inactivity_timeout 2400

**backend\_inactivity\_timeout**: time (in seconds) the router waits
for applications to respond (default 1200 seconds). To change this:

    kato config set router2g client_inactivity_timeout 2400

**prevent\_x\_spoofing** (true|false): Enable HTTP "X-" header
spoofing prevention (default 'true'). When enabled, the router
discards all X- headers sent by the client (e.g. X-Forwarded-For,
X-Forwarded-proto, X-Real-IP, etc.) and replaces them with values
determined by the router itself. Set this option to 'false' only if the routers are behind a load balancer which terminates SSL connections; in this scenario, the router will trust the X-headers set by the load balancer. 

To enable:

    kato config set router2g prevent_x_spoofing true --json

**session\_affinity** (true|false - disabled/unset by default):
Enable sticky session support on the router. Overrides normal
round-robin load balancing for clients with JSESSIONID, SESSIONID,
or PHPSESSID cookies set (configurable in the router's
*config/local.json* file), routing those clients to specific
application instances. If the backend assigned on the first request
goes down, a new one is automatically assigned. Clients can delete
their sticky session assignment by removing the
HELION\_SESSION\_AFFINITY cookie.

**x\_frame\_options**: Prevent clickjacking on requests with
[X-Frame response
header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTTP/X-Frame-Options)
configuration. Disabled if empty (default). Valid values are:

-   DENY
-   SAMEORIGIN
-   ALLOW\_FROM \<uri\>

For example:

       kato config set router2g x_frame_options SAMEORIGIN

**Note**

Alternatively, end user applications can employ
[framekiller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Framekiller) JavaScript
snippets to help prevent frame based clickjacking.

## WebSockets {#websockets}

Applications using web sockets must use the VCAP\_APP\_PORT or PORT
[*environment variables*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/environment/#environment-variables)
to set the default listener port of the WebSocket server.

## SPDY {#router-spdy}

[SPDY](http://dev.chromium.org/spdy/) is a protocol developed by Google
for reducing web page load time. The router supports SPDY versions 2 and
3. Applications can use SPDY over any HTTPS connection, so long as the
connection consumers (the application server and browser) support it.
