<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic13244">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: In-Place Upgrades of ALS Nodes and Clusters</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.1upgrade.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/upgrade/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service provides the ability to upgrade a node or cluster in place via <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade" >kato node upgrade</xref> without the need to rebuild the entire cluster. This section covers how the upgrade process works.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/before-an-upgrade">Before an upgrade</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/maintenance-mode">Maintenance Mode</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/backup-snapshot">Backups or Snapshots</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/proxy-settings">Proxy settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/rsa-keys">Passwordless SSH</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/pwless-sudo">Passwordless sudo</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/extraDEA">Extra DEA Nodes</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/executing-the-upgrade">Executing the upgrade</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/upgrading-an-individual-node">Upgrading an individual node</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/upgrading-a-cluster">Upgrading a cluster</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/download-only">Download Only Option</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/node-upgrade-ordering">Node Upgrade Order</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/node-upgrade-process">Node Upgrade Process</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/zero">Zero-downtime Upgrades</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/upgrade-node-upgrade-offline">Offline Upgrade Process</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic13244/troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="before-an-upgrade"> <title>Before an upgrade</title>
<p>Ensure that you have the latest version of the Application Lifecycle Service installed before updating any nodes or clusters.</p>
<p>If <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-patch" >kato patch</xref> has not been applied consistently, <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-attach" >kato node upgrade</xref> can still be executed. It will first upgrade the node to the latest release, which will include all of the interim patches.</p>
</section>
<section id="free-disk-space"> <title>Free Disk Space</title>
<p>Each node in the cluster to be upgraded requires at least 4GB free disk space except for the cache node, which needs at least 10GB free.</p>
<p>If sufficient disk space cannot be reserved in the existing cluster for an upgrade, consider creating a new cluster and <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.1index.dita#backup-migration" >migrating the data</xref> rather than upgrading in place.</p>
<p>To add additional space on the cache node specifically for the upgrade:</p>
<ul>
<li>mount an external filesystem on the cache node</li>
<li>create a temporary directory on the drive (e.g. <i>/mnt/sda2/tmp</i>)</li>
<li>change the  cache_dir  setting in <i>/s/code/sentinel/daemon/config/config.yml</i> to point to the new temporary directory</li>
<li>
<p>on the cache node, run</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo service sentinel-d restart 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="free-memory"> <title>Free Memory</title>
<p>Core/cache nodes require at least 1GB of free memory for upgrades to run successfully. Other nodes require at least 512MB.</p>
<p>Use the <b>free</b> or <b>vmstat</b> commands to determine how much memory is available on each VM and use <b>kato stop</b> to temporarily stop roles if more memory is required.</p>
</section>
<section id="maintenance-mode"> <title>Maintenance Mode</title>
<p>Before beginning an upgrade, put Application Lifecycle Service in maintenance mode using the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.1customize.dita#console-settings-maintenance-mode" >Cloud Controller Settings</xref> or the following <i>kato</i> command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato config set cloud_controller_ng maintenance_mode true
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This shuts down API requests but continues to serve web requests. The Management Console becomes "read only" with the exception of this toggle so that it can be brought back online. Remember to disable maintenance mode once the upgrade has been completed.</p>
</section>
<section id="backup-snapshot"> <title>Backups or Snapshots</title>
<p>Back up all system and user data by performing a <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.1index.dita#backup-migration" >data export</xref> (recommended) or create <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/best-practices/1.1index.dita#bestpractices-snapshots" >snapshots</xref> of all nodes in your hypervisor.</p>
</section>
<section id="proxy-settings"> <title>Proxy settings for Upgrades</title>
<p>The systems being upgraded will need to be able to access the following
public URIs:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://upgrade.helion.com/" scope="external" format="html" >https://upgrade.helion.com</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://pkg.helion.com/" scope="external" format="html" >https://pkg.helion.com</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>This may require setting the HTTPS_PROXY environment variable on each
node if a proxy is in use on your network. See <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.1configuration.dita#http-proxy" >Upstream Proxy Settings</xref> for instructions on configuring upstream proxies. For upgrades specifically, the <b>http_proxy</b> environment variable must be set in the shell you'll be running the upgrade from. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>export http_proxy=http://intproxy.example.com: 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="rsa-keys"> <title>Passwordless SSH</title>
<p>For cluster upgrades, you should set up SSH keys <xref href="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Configuring#disable-password-authentication" scope="external" format="html" >and disable password authentication</xref>
between the Core node and all other cluster nodes. Without this configuration, you will be prompted for the system user password multiple times for each node.</p>
</section>
<section id="pwless-sudo"> <title>Passwordless sudo</title>
<p>Unless passwordless sudo is enabled, kato will prompt for the sudo password during the upgrade of each node even if passwordless SSH key authentication is enabled.</p>
<p>For a completely unattended upgrade, configure passwordless sudo in addition to configuring SSH keys as described above. For example, you could run the following commands on all nodes in the cluster:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>echo 'helion ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: ALL' | sudo tee /etc/sudoers.d/nopasswd
sudo chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers.d/nopasswd
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>With passwordless sudo in effect on all nodes, <i>kato node upgrade</i> should run without intervention. Obviously, this change has security implications, and is left to the discretion of the admin. Enable it only for the duration of the upgrade.</p>
</section>
<section id="extraDEA"> <title>Extra DEA Nodes</title>
<p>While the upgrade is in progress, DEAs will be <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-attach" >retired</xref> one at a time and the hosted applications will be moved to other DEAs. If the system is operating at or close to capacity (all DEAs are fully populated) it will be necessary to add at least one <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/cluster/1.1index.dita#dea-nodes" >DEA node</xref> to the cluster before proceeding. Customers are typically permitted to exceed their node/memory license allocation during an upgrade.</p>
</section>
<section id="executing-the-upgrade"> <title>Executing the upgrade</title>
</section>
<section id="upgrading-an-individual-node"> <title>Upgrading an individual node</title>
<p>To upgrade an individual node, log into the node and run:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato node upgrade
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This will start the <b>Node Upgrade Process</b> as described below.</p>
</section>
<section id="upgrading-a-cluster"> <title>Upgrading a cluster</title>
<p>To upgrade a cluster, log into the Core node in the cluster and run:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato node upgrade --cluster
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This will automatically arrange the nodes in the cluster into a preferred upgrade order (see below) before upgrading the nodes one at a time.</p>
<p>On production systems, it's advisable to download the upgrade files first.</p>
</section>
<section id="download-only"> <title>Download Only Option</title>
<p>The <i>--download-only</i> option causes <i>kato node upgrade</i> to download the files required for a subsequent upgrade to a specified cache location, but not execute the actual upgrade.</p>
<p>This step can be done while the system is operating normally (not in Maintenance Mode). The subsequent upgrade should be faster, requiring a shorter maintenance window, as files are fetched from a cache within the cluster.</p>
<p>First, update kato itself:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato node upgrade --update-kato
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This ensures that the <i>--download-only</i> option is available for the next command.</p>
<p>To start the download:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato node upgrade --download-only --cache-ip &lt;Core node IP&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Once the download has completed, the upgrade portion can be run (with or without public network connectivity) by executing:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>kato node upgrade --cache-ip &lt;Core node IP&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="node-upgrade-ordering"> <title>Node upgrade ordering</title>
<p>When performing a cluster upgrade, the nodes in the cluster are automatically arranged into an upgrade order based on the roles they have enabled. This order is then followed when upgrading nodes.</p>
<p>The default role order is:</p>
<ol>
<li>DEA</li>
<li>controller</li>
<li>router</li>
<li>base</li>
<li>primary</li>
<li>other</li>
</ol>
<p>Nodes are matched to this ordering by the roles they have enabled. Any nodes that don't match (e.g. data service nodes) are added to the end to be upgraded last.</p>
<p>The order can be overridden with the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-upgrade" >--role-order</xref>
option.</p>
</section>
<section id="node-upgrade-process"> <title>Node Upgrade Process</title>
<p>Each node goes through the following process during an upgrade.</p>
<ol>
<li>Self-update</li>
<li>Application Lifecycle Service version check</li>
<li>Pre-upgrade validation</li>
<li>Retire (DEA nodes only)</li>
<li>Backup state</li>
<li>Upgrade</li>
<li>Post-upgrade validation</li>
<li>Node restart</li>
</ol>
<p>Before any upgrade actions are performed, <i>kato node upgrade</i> performs a self-update check to make sure it is running the latest code available. After this base check, the version of Application Lifecycle Service running on the node is checked against the latest version available. If a newer version of Application Lifecycle Service is available (or if the <codeph>--force</codeph> option was used) the upgrade process begins.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Using the <codeph>--force</codeph> option is not recommended unless you have been directed to do so by HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.</p>
<p>A pre-upgrade validation check is performed on the node to check that it is in working order before any upgrade actions are performed. If this validation fails then the upgrade process is stopped. These validation steps can be displayed to the user as errors while still continuing the upgrade process by using the <i>--ignore-inspect-failures</i> option.</p>
<p>
<b>Warning</b>: Use this option only if you get failures running <i>kato node inspect</i> that are known to be caused by systems outside of the control of Application Lifecycle Service, or if directed by HP Application Lifecycle Service Support.</p>
<p>Next, the upgrade packages are downloaded and a validation check is performed on the files to make sure everything required for an upgrade is available. If the node is a DEA node it is then <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-retire" >retired</xref> to ensure any applications running on the node are evacuated before the upgrade takes place.</p>
<p>After the components have been upgraded, the node is restarted and then post-upgrade validation takes place. If any failures occur, the upgrade process is stopped and you will be given the option to roll back the upgrade. As with the pre-upgrade validation, this can be skipped using the <i>--ignore-inspect-failures</i> option (see warning above).</p>
<p>When <i>kato node upgrade</i> completes successfully, the node is restarted running the latest version of Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<p>Remember to take the node out of maintenance mode after the upgrade.</p>
</section>
<section id="zero"> <title>Zero-downtime Upgrades</title>
<p>On clusters with redundant components, the upgrade will result in no down time for user applications which:</p>
<ul>
<li>Use an external data services (Service Broker)</li>
<li>And are running at least two instances</li>
</ul>
<p>The cluster must have the following redundant roles:</p>
<ul>
<li>At least two Routers <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1kato-ref.dita#kato-command-ref-node-setup-load_balancer" >(behind a Load Balancer)</xref>
</li>
<li>At least two DEA nodes</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="upgrade-node-upgrade-offline"> <title>Offline Upgrades (update from .tgz Archive)</title>
<p>For clusters without direct access to the internet for upgrades, a  single .tgz archive will contain all of the packages
necessary to upgrade.</p>
<p>Download the archive and transfer it to a node with at least 7GB of free disk space to allow for the extraction of all the bundled packages (14GB if you are upgrading from the previous version).</p>
<p>To upgrade:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Unpack the .tgz file in a convenient directory (in this example, <i>/tmp</i>).</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>stackato@demo:/tmp$ tar xzvf als-upgrade-x.x.x-x.x.x.tgz 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change to the newly created directory::</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>stackato@demo:/tmp$ cd als-upgrade-x.x.x-x.x.x/ 
stackato@demo:/tmp/als-upgrade-x.x.x-x.x.x$ 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the upgrade script::</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>stackato@demo:/tmp/als-upgrade-x.x.x-x.x.x$ ruby als-upgrade-x.x.x-x.x.x.rb 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enter the <i>sudo</i> password when prompted, and then follow the prompts.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="troubleshooting"> <title>Troubleshooting</title>
<p>Potential difficulties and how to resolve them.</p>
</section>
<section id="network-connectivity"> <title>Network Connectivity</title>
<p>Network connectivity errors during the upgrade process can cause it to fail. In such cases, it is possible to resume the upgrade once connectivity to the upstream resources is restored.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>:  If network connectivity is a concern, use the <xref type="section" href="#topic13244/download-only">--download-only</xref> option described above to limit the possibility of a network error during an upgrade.</p>
</section>
<section id="app-store-proxy-settings"> <title>App Store Proxy Settings</title>
<p>Proxy settings for the App Store may be lost during an upgrade. If the App Store cannot fetch data after an upgrade, and your system is behind an HTTP(S) proxy, <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.1configuration.dita#http-proxy" >reset the proxy information</xref> for your network.</p>
</section>
<section id="upgrading-with-customizations"> <title>Upgrading with Customizations</title>
<p>Many files and directories in the ALS VM are overwritten during an upgrade. The <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.1customize.dita" >Customization instructions</xref> document best practices which are safe for upgrades, but some customers may have modified the system further.</p>
<p>Customizations made within the following directories <b>will</b> be deleted or undone during an upgrade:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<i>/s/code/aok</i>
</li>
<li>
<i>/s/code/console</i>
</li>
<li>
<i>/s/code</i>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Customizations made in the following directories <b>may</b> also be lost:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<i>/s/etc/</i>
</p>

<p>Modifications to existing files will be lost; new files will not be touched (unless the filename conflicts with a new one)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<i>/s/static/</i>
</p>

<p>New files will survive, but modifications to existing clients will be lost.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>If you have made customizations in these places or in other areas not described in the customization instructions, save the new or modified files elsewhere, run upgrade on a non-production system, then copy or merge the files into the upgraded test system.</p>
</section>
<section id="custom-buildpacks"> <title>Custom Buildpacks</title>
<p>
<b>Warning</b>: Any custom buildpacks added to the system prior to the upgrade will be lost.
Custom buildpacks must be <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1buildpack.dita#custom-buildpacks" >restored</xref> to the system after an upgrade.</p>
</section>
<section id="clearing-the-browser-cache"> <title>Clearing the Browser Cache</title>
<p>After an upgrade, certain Management Console JavaScript and CSS files may persist in the browser. For example, Firefox users may see the following error in the Applications view:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>sconsole.cf_api.settings is undefined
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Performing a cache clear using whichever key combination is appropriate for the browser (ex: CTRL+SHIFT+F5) will resolve such errors. When scheduling an upgrade, notify the system users that they should not merely refresh (F5) but perform a cache clear after the upgrade is completed.</p>
</section>
<section id="restaging-apps"> <title>Restaging Apps Behind a Proxy</title>
<p>When migrating applications from <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> 1.0 to 1.1, applications with broken 
support for <codeph>https_proxy</codeph> may fail during staging (or pre-running 
hooks) because <codeph>https_proxy</codeph> is now always defined during these 
stages, even when there is no upstream proxy behind the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/server/1.1configuration.dita#staging-cache-app-http-proxy" >builtin 
proxy</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="missing-kato"> <title>Missing Kato Utility</title>
<p>If the <b>kato upgrade</b> command exits during the installation of the kato package, it is possible that <i>kato</i> itself can "go missing". It is removed before the upgraded package is fully installed.</p>
<p>To recover from this state:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Find the command and options that <i>kato</i> used to initiate the upgrade. 
For example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>tac /s/logs/sentinel-cli.log | grep -m1 'Running with command' 
INFO  Sentinel::CLI : Running with command: bin/sentinel upgrade 3.4.1 127.0.0.1 192.168.20.11 --skip-download
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Execute</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>cd /s/code/sentinel/cli 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy the output after 'Running with command:' and run it. In this example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>bin/sentinel upgrade 3.4.1 127.0.0.1 192.168.20.11 --skip-download 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
