<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3145">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Beta: Metering Service (Ceilometer) Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
      <b>Note</b>: The deployment of the Helion OpenStack v1.1 Metering service is considered
      experimental and targeted at developers investigating integration of external software
      applications with the Ceilometer API for showback, chargeback, and billing applications only.
      Only a limited set of metrics are available in the Helion OpenStack v1.1 release. </p>
<p>The HP Helion OpenStack Metering service leverages the OpenStack Ceilometer service. A metering service takes specified measurements of both physical and virtual resources, including physical servers and network devices such as switches and firewalls. No matter what purpose the data is used for, this service provides a reliable, consistent method for data collection.</p>
<section id="installation"> <title>Installation</title>
<p>The metering service is automatically installed as part of the Helion OpenStack installation process. It may be necessary to install the command-line interface (<xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html" scope="external" format="html" >CLI</xref>) separately to perform various administrative tasks.</p>
<p>The initial default configuration enables a limited subset of all potential meters, collecting a few essential measurements from the Nova, Cinder, Glance, and Neutron services only. With these measurements, the Ceilometer API can begin collecting basic Helion OpenStack usage and status information.</p>
<p>Additional metrics collection for all of the Helion OpenStack infrastructure services, as well as other application and platform services, are targeted for future Helion OpenStack releases.</p>
</section>
<section id="working-with-ceilometer"> <title>Working with Ceilometer</title>
<p>All the Ceilometer processes have a unified configuration file that can be found at <i>/etc/ceilometer/ceilometer.conf</i> on the specific overcloud controller you are logged in to.</p>
<p>Access to Ceilometer is through the command-line interface <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/ceilometerclient_commands.html" scope="external" format="html" >(CLI)</xref>, or the low-level <xref href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-telemetry-v2.html" scope="external" format="html" >REST API</xref>. A Ceilometer Horizon dashboard panel is not available at this time.</p>

  <!--  
  <ul>
<li>
Configuration and Architecture Overview
</li>
<li>
Available Meter Types
</li>
<li>
Role Based Access Control (RBAC) Policies
</li>
<li>
Troubleshooting
 
<ul>
<li>
Logging</xref>
</li>
<li>
Messaging and Queuing Errors</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
API Extensions: HPE Health Check API</xref>
</li>
<li>
Managing Notifications from the Nova Service</xref>
</li>
<li>
Best Practices and Performance Optimization</xref>

<ul>
<li>
Configuring the Web Server for API Performance</xref>
</li>
<li>
Modifying the List of Active Meters</xref>
</li>
<li>
Modifying Polling Intervals</xref>
</li>
<li>
Swift Service Considerations</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
 -->
</section>


  <section id="info"> <title>For more information</title>
    <p>For information on how to operate your cloud we suggest you read the <xref
      href="http://gaf2871b9d2d13cf45c1306b35bf01764.cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/HP-Helion-OpenStack-Carrier-Grade-Admin-Guide.pdf"
      format="pdf" scope="external"><i>Administrator Guide</i></xref>.</p>
  </section>
  

</body>
</topic>
