<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4317">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Troubleshooting</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4317/server-log-files">Server Log Files</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4317/health-manager-log">health_manager.log</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4317/inspecting-user-apps-as-an-admin">Inspecting User Apps as an Admin</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4317/system-diagnosis">System Diagnosis</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4317/specific-cases">Specific Error Cases</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="server-log-files"> <title>Server Log Files</title>
<p>If you need to troubleshoot or monitor Application Lifecycle Service logs with a third party,
they can be found in the \~/helion/logs/* directory on the Application Lifecycle Service
server.</p>
<p>These logs are under daily log rotation with the use of
<xref href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man8/logrotate.8.html" scope="external" format="html" >logrotate</xref>.
Up to three days worth of compressed logs are kept before deletion of
the oldest archive.</p>
<p>To modify the log rotation, edit the <i>/etc/logrotate.d/helion</i> file as
needed. To disable Application Lifecycle Service log rotation, delete the file or move it to
another folder.</p>
</section>
<section id="health-manager-log"> <title>health_manager.log</title>
<p>The <codeph>health_manager</codeph> process is responsible for
monitoring containers and making sure they are relaunched if there's a
problem. The <i>health_manager.log</i> file contains information on all
application instances running on the system.</p>
<p>Sometimes you may see "CRASHED" notifications such as this:</p>
<codeblock>[2013-04-07 22:42:01.329571] hm - pid=2701 tid=5b3b fid=5cbf  DEBUG -- healthmanager.status: {"droplet":119,"state":"CRASHED"}</codeblock>
<p>A CRASHED status means that the app crashed within the container and the
health_manager is no longer able to find a running process that looks
like that app (e.g. for a Node app, the node process isn't running; for
a Java app, there is no Java process, etc.). Most of the time this is a
problem with the app within the container.</p>
<p>Cross reference the droplet ID in the <i>dea.log</i> or <i>stager.log</i> files to
find the application name, then check the logs for the application (e.g.
'helion crashlogs'). By far the most common cause of crashing apps is
a lack of memory, allocating more memory to an app is a good first step
to see if this fixes the problem.</p>
</section>
<section id="inspecting-user-apps-as-an-admin"> <title>Inspecting User Apps as an Admin</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service Admin accounts have root-like privileges. They can inspect all
user applications and service instances running on the system.</p>
<p>The helion group \&lt;command-users-groups-limits&gt; command can be used
by admin accounts to inspect applications and service instances for any
group or user. For example:</p>
<codeblock>helion group jane.doe@example.com</codeblock>
<p>This sets the scope of subsequent operations to the specified user. Use
<codeph>helion group --reset</codeph> to return to the scope of
the logged-in admin user.</p>
</section>
<section id="system-diagnosis"> <title>System Diagnosis</title>
<p>There may be cases where resolving an issue requires a complete view of
the system metrics. This functionality is provided by the
<codeph>helion admin report</codeph> command. It generates a
single file (by default named <i>\&lt;target&gt;-report.tgz</i>) that can be
provided to the Application Lifecycle Service support team for analysis:</p>
<codeblock>helion admin report</codeblock>
<p>The file is several megabytes in size and will take a few seconds to
generate. Send it, along with a detailed description of your problem, to
HPE at: <xref href="mailto:als-support@hp.com" format="html" >als-support@hp.com</xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="specific-cases"> <title>Specific Error Cases</title>
<p>
  <b>When pushing an app, the Application Lifecycle Service Client reports OK but app isn't running</b>
</p>
<p>The final output from pushing an app should look like:</p>
<codeblock>Staging Application: OK
Starting Application: OK</codeblock>
<p>If the app is being pushed to multiple instances, the client waits
until at least one instance is running, and exits at that point (it
does not wait until all instances are active). If afterwards you run
<codeph>helion apps</codeph> and find the Health status at 0%,
it is because the app crashed after starting successfully, not because
the Application Lifecycle Service client reported incorrectly.</p>
<p>
  <b>DNS queries returning "connection refused"</b>
</p>
<p>This error is reported when the Application Lifecycle Service server does not have an IP
Address. To investigate and resolve, try the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>
  <p>Verify the ARP tables on the hypervisor host, and on the Application Lifecycle Service server through its <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-tty-console">tty console</xref>:</p>

<codeblock>arp -n</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check that the DHCP client is running:</p>

<codeblock>pgrep dhclient
grep dhclient /var/log/syslog</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Connect to the DHCP server and verify that it is receiving client requests from the Application Lifecycle Service server.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If your network is statically configured, assign an IP address on the Application Lifecycle Service server by editing the <xref href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man5/interfaces.5.html" scope="external" format="html" >interfaces</xref> file:</p>

<codeblock>/etc/network/interfaces</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
