---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/server/docker/
product: devplatform2.0
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Docker and Fence"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: ISV Developer 
role3: Service Developer
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Systems Administrator 
role6: Security Engineer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Docker and Fence {#docker-fence "Permalink to this headline"}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/admin/server/docker/)

Application Lifecycle Service's [DEA role](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/reference/architecture/#architecture-dea) runs Linux containers to isolate user applications during staging and at runtime. Management of these application containers is handled by the *fence* process, which in turn uses
[Docker](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/) to create and destroy Linux
containers on demand.

Typically, admins will not have to work directly with Docker, but it is
accessible if needed to customize or create new container images.

-   [Modifying or Updating the Container Image](#modifying-or-updating-the-container-image)
-   [Admin Hooks](#admin-hooks)
-   [Creating a Docker Registry](#creating-a-docker-registry)
-   [Privileged Containers](#docker-privileged-containers)

##Modifying or Updating the Container Image {#modifying-or-updating-the-container-image}

Application containers are created from a base Docker image (a template used to create Linux containers). Admins can create new images to add specific software required by applications or update operating system packages.

See also the [Upgrade the Docker Image](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/best-practices/#upgrade-docker) section in the [Best Practices](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/best-practices/) reference, which shows how to modify the Docker base image **without** changing *kato config*. 

To create a new base image for Application Lifecycle Service to use for application containers, perform the following steps **on all nodes running the DEA role**:

1.  Start with an empty working directory:

        mkdir ~/newimg
        cd ~/newimg

2.  Check which image Application Lifecycle Service is currently using as an app container
    template:

        kato config get fence docker/images
        helion/stack/alsek

3.  Create a [Dockerfile](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/use/builder/) which inherits the current Docker image, then runs an update or installation command. For example:

        FROM helion/stack-alsek:kato-patched
        RUN apt-get -y install libgraphite2-dev

    -   [FROM](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/use/builder/#from):
        inherits the environment and installed software from the latest patched version of the app image.
    -   [RUN](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/use/builder/#run):
        specifies arbitrary commands to run before saving the image.
    -   [ADD](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/use/builder/#add): could
        be used to copy files into the image.
<br />
<br />
4.  Build the image. Set the maintainer's name and an image name:

        sudo docker build -rm -t exampleco/newimg .

5.  Configure Application Lifecycle Service to use the new image:

	**Note**: This step only needs to be done once, as the configuration change is shared with all nodes:

	    kato config set fence docker/images exampleco/newimg
	    WARNING: Assumed type string
	    exampleco/newimg

## Admin Hooks {#admin-hooks}

If an administrator wants to run arbitrary commands in all application
containers, global admin hooks can be set to run immediately after
corresponding user-specified deployment hooks (pre-staging,
post-staging, pre-running) set in application 
[manifest.yml](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/) files.

These hooks must be:

-   plain bash scripts with the executable bit set (`chmod +x`)
-   named *pre-staging*, *post-staging*, or *pre-running*
-   installed in */etc/helion/hooks* within the Docker image

For example, a pre-running admin hook might look like this:

    #!/bin/sh
    export PRE_RUN_DATE=`date`
    export EXAMPLECO_KEY="3A0fwPwUftDu0FEzmhN8yJkvM1vS6A"
    if [ -z "$NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY" ]; then
      echo "setting default New Relic key"
      export NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY="bdb9b44e8n4411d8bf39870f1919927d79cr0f1r"
    fi
    export HELION_HOOK_ENV=PRE_RUN_DATE,EXAMPLECO_KEY
    sudo /usr/sbin/nrsysmond-config --set license_key=$NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
    sudo /etc/init.d/newrelic-sysmond start

**Note**

The `HELION_HOOK_ENV` environment variable is
needed to expose the specified variables in `helion ssh` sessions, the application container's crontab, and PHP
applications using the Legacy buildpack. This requirement may change in
subsequent releases.

The Dockerfile for creating the image (see [Modifying or Updating the
Container Image](#docker-modify-container) ) would use the ADD
directive to put a local *hooks* directory in the Docker image's
*/etc/helion/* directory:

    FROM helion/stack-alsek
    ADD hooks /etc/helion/hooks

The pre-running hook example above would require the addition of
`newrelic-sysmond` to the Docker image. A Dockerfile
enabling that might look like this:

    FROM helion/stack-alsek

    RUN echo deb http://apt.newrelic.com/debian/ newrelic non-free >> /etc/apt/sources.list.d/newrelic.list
    RUN wget -O- https://download.newrelic.com/548C16BF.gpg | apt-key add -
    RUN apt-get update
    RUN apt-get install newrelic-sysmond
    # The nrsysmond scripts are run with sudo
    RUN echo "HELION ALL= NOPASSWD: /etc/init.d/newrelic-sysmond" >> /etc/sudoers
    RUN echo "HELION ALL= NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/nrsysmond-config" >> /etc/sudoers

    ADD hooks /etc/helion/hooks

##Creating a Docker Registry {#creating-a-docker-registry}

The steps above will work with smaller clusters or micro clouds where
the creation of Docker images on each DEA can be done manually. On
larger clusters, you should set up a [Docker
registry](http://blog.docker.io/2013/07/how-to-use-your-own-registry/)
as a central repository for your container templates.

1.  On the Core node of your cluster, pull the docker-registry
    \<https://index.docker.io/u/samalba/docker-registry/\> image from
    the Docker index:

        sudo docker pull helion/docker-registry

2.  Start the server:

        sudo docker run -d -p 5000 helion/docker-registry
        f39d1b3f6fedc50e77875526352bd5a0f650a998dc1d7ca4e39c4a1eb8349e42

    This returns the ID of the running registry server image. A shorter
    container ID is also available via `docker ps`.
    You can use either for the subsequent commands.

3.  Use the ID to get the public facing port for the running image. For
    example:

        sudo docker port f39d1b3f6fed 5000
        0.0.0.0:49156

    Your registry location is a combination of the API endpoint of your
    cluster (i.e. `kato config get cluster endpoint`) combined with the port number returned by the command
    above. For example:

        api.paas.example.com:49156

    This registry location will be used to pull the images you create to
    your DEA nodes.

4.  Go through steps 1 - 3 [*above*](#docker-modify-container) to create
    a Docker image file. When building the image, substitute the
    registry location for the organization name used in step 4. For
    example:

        sudo docker build -rm -t api.paas.example.com:49156/exampleco/newimg .

	If the new image is simply an updated version of the default base image, you can tag the image **helion/stack-alsek:latest** (as described in the [Ubuntu Security Updates](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/best-practices/#bestpractices-ubuntu-security) and skip the following step. 


5.  Push the newly built Docker image to the registry:

        sudo docker push api.paas.example.com:49156/exampleco/newimg

	**Note**: The *helion/stack/alsek* and *helion/base images* (approximately 1.9GB) are pushed to the registry in addition to the new image. Make sure you have sufficient disk space available on the VM.

6.  **On all DEA nodes**, pull the new image from the registry:

        sudo docker pull api.paas.example.com:49156/exampleco/newimg

7.  Configure Application Lifecycle Service to use the new image:

        kato config set fence docker/images api.paas.example.com:49156/exampleco/newimg
        WARNING: Assumed type string
        api.paas.example.com:49156/exampleco/newimg

    This step only needs to be done once, as the configuration change is
    shared with all nodes.

The [Upgrade the Docker Image](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/best-practices/#upgrade-docker) section in the [Best Practices](/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/admin/best-practices) documentation explains how to modify the Docker base image without changing *kato config*. 


## Privileged Containers {#docker-privileged-containers} 
ALS runs "unprivileged" Docker containers by default. The containers do not have access to any devices on the (virtual) host. 

This is a barrier to certain operations such as mounting disk partitions 
via NFS, so an option exists to change Docker container creation to "privileged": 
 
	kato config set dea_ng docker/privileged true 
   
This [container privilege elevation](https://docs.docker.com/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-lxc-configuration) would normally be used in conjunction with *sudo* container access in the quota: 
 
	helion quota configure --allow-sudo 
  
 **Warning:**  **Every application running under this configuration has the potential to become root on the host.** These changes should only be made when all users of the system are completely trusted (i.e. with admin privileges) as they compromise the isolation between application containers and host.

