<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1268">
<title>HP Helion 1.3 Development Platform: What's New</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.3"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.3"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <note>In this release, only the Application Lifecycle Service was updated significantly, as
      listed below. The rest of the services remain unchanged from the previous version. For more
      specific technical information, see the <xref href="devplatform.release-notes.dita#topic2502"
        >Release Notes</xref>.</note> 
<section id="updates"><title>Updates</title>
  <p>The following features and functionality have been added to the HP Helion Application Lifecycle Service:</p>
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Docker Apps</dt>
      <dd><xref href="helion/user/deploy/languages/docker_apps.dita">Deploy applications as Docker containers</xref> provides an alternative to the usual method of application deployment.
            Administrators control user permissions and which registries and images are allowed.
            Local ALS caching registry servers share Docker image layers to improve deployment
            efficiency. </dd>
    </dlentry><dlentry><dt>In-Place Node Upgrades</dt><dd>After installing Helion Development Platform 1.3, you may <xref
              href="helion/admin/server/upgrade.dita#topic13180">upgrade existing ALS
              clusters</xref> to use the new images. You do not have to re-create them. Images
            created in the previous version will continue to function, but will not support the new
            features added in version 1.3.</dd></dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Updated Buildpacks</dt>
      <dd> The <xref href="helion/user/deploy/deploy_index.dita#topic1693/languages"
        >buildpacks</xref> have all been updated, including Ruby (2.1.5) and Docker
        (1.5).</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Updated Source</dt>
      <dd>This release includes a merge from Cloud Foundry v205.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>New Feature Flags</dt>
      <dd>More <xref
        href="helion/admin/console/console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/feature-flags"
        >fine-grained Admin permission controls</xref> are now available.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Improved <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> Server stack updates</dt>
      <dd><tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> server stack has been updated to improve customer experience <ul>
              <li>.NET buildpack streamlined with a Java workflow</li>
              <li>.NET buildpack packaged as an Admin buildpack providing updatability</li>
              <li>Support for <tm tmtype="reg">Microsoft SQL Server</tm> tunneling</li>
              <li>General performance improvements </li>
            </ul></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>Improved Windows development tools</dt>
      <dd>Improved deployment workflow, application file browsing, service instance creation, and more.
</dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
