<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2759">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating Server Groups</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ServerGroups/1.1commercial.managing.groups.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/groups/create/--></p>
<p>Server Groups is a mechanism to group virtual machines to which a common set of scheduling attributes is applied.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<section id="using-the-horizon-dashboard"> <title>Using the Horizon dashboard</title>
<p>To create a server group using the Horizon dashboard:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> or <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Server Group</b> link.</p>

<p>The routers for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create New Server Group</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Create New Server Group</b> screen:</p>

<ol>
<li>Select a project for the new service group should be associated with. </li>
<li>Specify a name for the new server group.</li>
<li>
<p>Select a scheduling policy:</p>

<ul>
<li>affinity - When this option is selected, new instances launched as part of this server group are scheduled to run on the same compute node.</li>
<li>
<p>anti-affinity - When this option is selected, new instances launched as part of this server group are scheduled to run on different compute nodes.</p>

<p>For example, you can use the anti-affinity option when you have two virtual machines that run in 1:1 HA protection mode, and you want them to be protected against hardware failures.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select whether to require that when the policy in place, affinity, or anti-affinity, the policy is enforced whenever possible, on a best-effort basis.</p>

<p>If for any reason the policy cannot be enforced, then the deployment of the new instance proceeds using the regular scheduling.</p>

<p>When cleared, the policy in place must be executable for the new instance to be scheduled. Launching of a new virtual machine fails if there are no resources to comply with the selected policy.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Specify the maximum number of instances that can co-exist as part of this server group.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create New Server Group</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The new service group is displayed.</p>
<p>Once a server group is defined, you can add virtual machines to it at launch time. This is done by selecting the desired
server group from the tab Server Group on the launch window.</p>
</section>
<section id="uisng-the-cli"> <title>Uisng the CLI</title>
<p>To create or delete a server group using the CLI, use the following commands:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova server-group-create --policy &lt;name&gt; \ --metadata best_effort=&lt;true/false&gt; --metadata group_size=&lt;number&gt; 

nova server-group-delete 63752c24


**Examples**

nova server-group-create --policy affinity \ --metadata best_effort=true --metadata group_size=2

nova server-group-delete 63752c24-...
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2759/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
