<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_s1z_4qr_nt">
 <title>Settings</title>
 <shortdesc>The <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol> view gives access to the following console and
  system settings:</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <title><keyword keyref="prodShort"/> Settings</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>System Settings</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>
      <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Logging Level</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Sets the verbosity of <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> logs from <codeph>debug2</codeph>
         (most verbose) through <codeph>off</codeph> (silent)</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Support Email</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Sets the email address displayed to application developers when errors are
          encountered<note type="tip">Use an email address monitored by <keyword keyref="prodShort"
          /> administrators.</note></dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>App Store URLs</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the URIs for <b>App Store Definition YAML files</b> which populate the App Store (the
      URIs do not have to be public, but must be accessible from the controller node)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Docker App Settings</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>
      <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Require sudo</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Limits Docker image deployment to organizations with <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions
         enabled in the quota plan</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><uicontrol>Allow any docker registry</uicontrol></dt>
        <dd>Allows users to deploy Docker images from any registry server <note type="caution"
          >Docker image deployment should be limited to either a trusted group of users, trusted
          image sources, or both. Allowing any user to deploy Docker images without restrictions is
          not recommended.</note></dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>Allowed Docker Registries</dt>
        <dd>
         <p>Displays a list of servers, namespaces, or images that users are allowed to deploy.
          Entries are specified in the standard format accepted by the <codeph>docker</codeph>
          client:
          <codeblock><varname>&lt;username></varname>:<varname>&lt;password></varname>@<varname>&lt;domain></varname>:<varname>&lt;port></varname>/<varname>&lt;namespace></varname>/<varname>&lt;repo></varname>:<varname>&lt;tag></varname></codeblock></p>
         <table id="table_n1y_jgt_nt">
          <tgroup cols="2">
           <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
           <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
           <thead>
            <row>
             <entry>Pattern</entry>
             <entry>What it allows</entry>
            </row>
           </thead>
           <tbody>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>httpd</codeph></entry>
             <entry>
              <ul id="ul_qnp_pgt_nt">
               <li>the <codeph>library/httpd</codeph> repo on the Docker Hub</li>
               <li>any tag</li>
              </ul>
             </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>httpd:</codeph></entry>
             <entry>only <codeph>library/httpd:latest</codeph></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>httpd:2.4</codeph></entry>
             <entry>only <codeph>library/httpd:2.4</codeph></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>cloudfoundry/</codeph></entry>
             <entry>
              <ul id="ul_osf_sgt_nt">
               <li>Docker Hub repos under the <codeph>cloudfoundry</codeph> namespace</li>
               <li>any tag</li>
              </ul>
             </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>cloudfoundry/lattice-app</codeph></entry>
             <entry>
              <ul id="ul_alh_tgt_nt">
               <li>only <codeph>clouddfoundry/lattice-app</codeph></li>
               <li>any tag</li>
              </ul>
             </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com</codeph></entry>
             <entry>any namespace, repo, or tag in a private registry</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com/</codeph></entry>
             <entry>any repo in the <codeph>library</codeph> namespace</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com/prod</codeph></entry>
             <entry>
              <ul id="ul_pmy_3ht_nt">
               <li>any repo in the <codeph>prod</codeph> namespace</li>
               <li>any tag</li>
              </ul>
             </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com/prod/app</codeph></entry>
             <entry>
              <ul id="ul_uvx_cht_nt">
               <li>only the <codeph>prod/app</codeph> repo</li>
               <li>any tag</li>
              </ul>
             </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com/prod/app:</codeph></entry>
             <entry>only <codeph>prod/app:latest</codeph></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com/prod/app:mytag</codeph></entry>
             <entry>only <codeph>prod/app:mytag</codeph></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>reg.example.com:5000</codeph></entry>
             <entry>a registry server running on a specific port</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
             <entry><codeph>user:pass@reg.example.com</codeph></entry>
             <entry>a registry server requiring login</entry>
            </row>
           </tbody>
          </tgroup>
         </table>
         <note>When a user requests a matching image name without credentials, credentials specified
          in the Allowed Docker Registries list are used by default.</note>
        </dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Allowed Repos</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the Debian package repositories allowed in application containers. Application
      developers can install additional packages (using <codeph>apt-get</codeph> or
       <codeph>aptitude</codeph>) only from these repositories. When adding new repositories, GPG
      keys for each new repo must also be added to the Docker base container (see <b>Allowed
       Repositories</b>).</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Maintenance Mode</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>
      <p>Shuts down API requests but continues to serve web requests (this is useful for performing
       system operations such as importing and exporting data for upgrades). When the primary node
       enters maintenance mode, the Management Console becomes read-only with the exception of this
       toggle (which allows it to be brought back online)</p>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Applications</uicontrol></title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Reserved URIs</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets virtual hostnames reserved for use by the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> system which
      cannot be used for applications. This setting prevents application developers from deploying
      applications on URIs required by the system (for example, <codeph>api</codeph>). It can also
      be used when a particular DNS sub-domain record is not being resolved to the <keyword
       keyref="prodShort"/> system. <note>Specify only the host (subdomain) portion of the URI.
       Fully-qualified URLs will be ignored.</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Console</uicontrol></title>
   <p>Settings and templates that allow you to customize the look and feel of the Management
    Console. These settings are divided into the following categories:</p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Product</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the options to rename and reversion <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> for OEM deployments,
      change the default locale (currently only <codeph>en</codeph> and <codeph>de</codeph> are
      available), choose a different URL for documentation, or disable console pingbacks</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Client</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the version number setting and alternative paths or URLs for alternative or renamed
      CLI clients</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Look and Feel</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the favicon, header, footer, or background color</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Welcome Page</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the EJS-templated HTML for displaying on the <uicontrol>Welcome</uicontrol> view</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Support Page</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the EJS-templated HTML for displaying on the <uicontrol>Support</uicontrol> view.
       <note>Change this setting if you support your application developers directly.</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Eula Content</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the End User License Agreement. <note>Change this setting only if you are an OEM
       customer exposing <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> to application developers under your own
       specific licensing terms</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Custom Stylesheet</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the single CSS file used to override any existing styling in the Management Console
       <note type="tip">Inspect the Console with browser tools such as Firebug or Chrome Developer
       Tools to see the class names and IDs</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <note type="tip">For detailed instructions on customizing and branding <keyword
     keyref="prodShort"/>, see <b>Theming and Customization</b>.</note>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>DEA</uicontrol></title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>DEA Settings</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>
      <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>Max Memory Percentage</dt>
        <dd>Sets the percentage of physical memory that each DEA node can use for hosted
         applications. The 80% default setting leaves enough memory for the operating system and DEA
         processes on a node with 4 GB of RAM. This setting can be increased on nodes that have more
         memory available (for example, to 90% on a node with 8 GB of RAM). Restart all DEA roles
         and nodes to apply your change.<note>Do not exceed 100% unless the system correctly
          supports swap space and has it enabled.</note></dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>Max Staging Duration</dt>
        <dd>Sets the maximum time allowed for application staging</dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>DEA Placement Zones</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Displays a filterable list of DEA Placement Zones on the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Availability Zones</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Displays a filterable list of Availability Zones on the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Feature Flags</uicontrol></title>
   <p>Administrators can use feature flags to toggle specific permissions that allow organization
    managers and developers to perform certain tasks. When the feature flag is disabled, only an
    administrator can perform the task.</p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable App Bits Upload</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows developers to upload application bits (enabled by default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable App Scaling</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows developers to scale applications (enabled by default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable Private Domain Creation</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows organization managers to create private domains for that organization (enabled by
      default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable Route Creation</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows developers to create routes in a space (enabled by default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable Service Instance Creation</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows developers to create service instances in a space (enabled by default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Enable User Organization Creation</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Allows any user to create an organization via the API (disabled by default)</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <p>These options can also be toggled using the <keyword keyref="CLIfile"/> CLI client with the
     <b>feature flags</b> commands.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Logging</uicontrol></title>
   <p>???</p>
   <!--Figure this out.-->
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>File System</uicontrol></title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Capacity</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum number of service slots to allocate</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Max FS Size</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum size on disk for filesystem services (in MB)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Allow Over-provisioning</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Ignores the <uicontrol>Capacity</uicontrol> setting</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Harbor</uicontrol></title>
   <p>Settings for the  <b>Harbor</b> TCP/UDP port service.</p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>External Host</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>
      <p>Sets the public IP (if configured) for the Harbor node</p>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>External Hostname</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the public hostname for the Harbor node</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Port Range Minimum</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the minimum for the exposed port range (the default is 35000)</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Port Range Maximum</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum for the exposed port range (the default is 40000)</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
   <note type="tip">For more information, see <b>Harbor: Requirements &amp; Setup</b>.</note>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><uicontrol>Data Services</uicontrol></title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Allow Over-provisioning</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Ignores the <uicontrol>Capacity</uicontrol> setting</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Capacity</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum number of service slots to allocate</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Max DB size</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum size on disk to allocate for database services</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Max Memory</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum amount of physical memory to allocate to the service</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Memcached Memory</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum amount of physical memory to allocate for memcached instances</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><uicontrol>Max FS Size</uicontrol></dt>
     <dd>Sets the maximum size on disk for filesystem services</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
