<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_nvp_bqr_nt">
 <title>Working with the Admin View</title>
 <shortdesc></shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <p>The Management Console is the web interface of <keyword keyref="prodShort"/>. It allows
   administrators to manage the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> server.</p>
  <note>The interface displays more options ansd settings for Administrators than it does for end
   users. Some of the features described below are only available in the
    <uicontrol>Admin</uicontrol> view.</note>
  <section>
   <title>Accessing the Management Console</title>
   <p>Your hypervisor provides <b>tty console</b> access to each of its virtual machines. After
    startup, an <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM displays the following:</p>
   <codeblock><keyword keyref="prodShort"/> Management Console at

https://<keyword keyref="mDNShostname"/></codeblock>
   <p>On a <b>micro cloud</b> VM where the local network supports <b>multicast DNS</b>, the hostname
    will be <codeph><keyword keyref="mDNShostname"/></codeph>. If you configured the <b>hostname</b>
    and <b>DNS</b> of the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> server manually, or if you connect to a
    server administered by someone else, supply the assigned hostname instead (for example,
     <codeph>api.hcf-test.example.com</codeph>).</p>
   <p>To load Management Console, enter the URL into your web browser.</p>
   <note>Using a browser that supports WebSockets fully is recommended. The console is supported on
    the following browsers:<ul id="ul_ajq_xtr_nt">
     <li>Chrome 30+ (WebKit)</li>
     <li>Firefox 20+</li>
     <li>IE 10+</li>
    </ul></note>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Creating the First Administrative User</title>
   <p>When you first access the Management Console, you will be prompted to create a primary
    administrative user for <keyword keyref="prodShort"/>. Enter an email address as the username
    and enter a secure password, then review and accept the license agreement.</p>
   <note>The password that you enter here becomes the password for the <keyword
     keyref="defaultSysUser"/> user on the VM (for example, for <codeph>ssh</codeph> access).</note>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Customizing the Configuration</title>
   <p>After you log in, you can add other users and administrators, enable and disable services, and
    customize the system according to your requirements.</p>
   <p>Basic <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> administration can be done through the Management Console,
    but some maintenance and configuration tasks may need to be done at the command line using the
     <codeph>kato</codeph> command. <note type="tip">For a full list of options, see the <xref
      href="../../refs/HCF_kato_commands.dita#reference_yff_q32_nt">Kato Command
     Reference</xref>.</note></p>
   <p>The <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> Management Console periodically sends non-identifying
    pingbacks (<keyword keyref="prodShort"/> version number and UUID) to Hewlett
    Packard<!--Verify--> servers to help us improve the web console experience. You can disable this
    by setting <codeph>theme_settings['pingback_allowed']=false;</codeph> in the
     <filepath>settings.js</filepath> file described in the <b>Theming and Customization</b>
    section.</p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
