<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_p3r_ytz_nt">
  <title>Admin</title>
  <shortdesc>There are several views that are available only to <keyword keyref="prodShort"/>
    administrators.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Cluster Management</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Summary</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Displays a list of roles and their status in the system. The following system
              information is also displayed:</p>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Number of nodes</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>The number of nodes in a cluster</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>Version</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>The version (release) number of the system</dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>MBUS IP</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>The IP address that hosts the primary node. Cluster nodes (if any) connect via this IP
                  address. In a micro cloud setting, it is <codeph>127.0.0.1</codeph></dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt><uicontrol>API Endpoint</uicontrol></dt>
                <dd>The URL that <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> clients target. Normally, it is also the URL
                  for the Management Console.</dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Cluster Nodes</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Displays a list of nodes in the current cluster, and what services are running on each
              node. In a micro cloud configuration, only the current local node
              (<codeph>127.0.0.1</codeph>) is displayed.</p>
            <p>To enable or disable services on a node, click <uicontrol>Configure Roles (cog
                icon)</uicontrol> to see the <uicontrol>Node Settings</uicontrol> that displays a
              list of all available roles and allows enabling or disabling them, and then click
                <uicontrol>Save</uicontrol>.</p>
            <note type="tip">For information on adding nodes to a cluster, see <b>Cluster Setip</b> and
              the <b><codeph>kato role</codeph></b> and <b><codeph>kato info</codeph></b> commands.</note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Available Patches</title>
      <p>Displays a list of the available patches for the current cluster.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Applications &amp; Organizations</title>
      <p>Displays links to the <b>Applications</b> and <b>Organizations</b></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Domains</title>
      <p>Displays a filterable list of all domains configured on the system, indicating whether they
        are <b>Shared or Owned domains</b>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Routes</title>
      <p>Displays a filterable list of routes in the system</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Services</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Managed Services Instances</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Displays a filterable list of managed service instances on the system</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>User Provided Service Instances</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Displays a filterable list of user provided service instances on the system</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Available Services</dt>
          <dd>Displays a list of available service types and their versions</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Users</title>
      <p>Displays a list of users and admins.</p>
      <p>To add users, click <uicontrol>+ Add User</uicontrol>.</p>
      <p>To view account details or to change passwords, click on the username or email address.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Quota Plans</title>
      <p>Displays a list of the quota plans available to apply to organizations on the system. To edit
        a definition, click the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> button on the right. The following fields
        can be modified:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Name</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The definition name. <note type="caution">Do not change this setting without also changing
              the settings of any organization using the definition.</note></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Memory Usage Limit</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The total amount of app RAM (in MB) that can be allocated to user applications.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Total Services</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The total number of service instances that can be allocated.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Total Routes</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The total number of routes that can be created.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Droplets per App</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>The number of droplets stored (per app) for versioning and rollback.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Allow Sudo</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Allow users in the organizations to have <codeph>sudo</codeph> privileges within their
            application containers.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p>To create a new definition, use the <b><codeph><keyword keyref="CLIfile"/> quota
        create</codeph></b> command.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><uicontrol>Dashboards</uicontrol></title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Memory Summary</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Tracks and displays the amount of memory used by applications across all DEA nodes and
            displays various reports. Available memory is calculated based on the system memory of
            the DEA nodes multiplied by the Max <b>Memory Percentage</b>. <b>Memory Summary</b>
            displays how much memory<ul id="ul_ikp_mzs_nt">
              <li>Has been assigned to organizations via <b>Quota Plans</b></li>
              <li>Is available on DEA nodes</li>
              <li>Remains unallocated</li>
              <li>Has been allocated</li>
              <li>Is currently in use</li>
            </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>DEA Usage</dt>
          <dd>Displays memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for each DEA node in the pool</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Placement Zone Usage</dt>
          <dd>Displays memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for all configured <b>Placement
            Zones</b></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Availability Zone Usage</dt>
          <dd>Displays memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for all configured <b>Availability
            Zones</b></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Router Stats</dt>
          <dd>Displays realtime results for incoming requests (connections per second), routing errors
            (errors per second), and an overview of the cumulative requests to the system.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Primary Node Status Graphs</dt>
          <dd>Displays graphs for server statistics:<ul id="ul_nmm_11t_nt">
            <li><uicontrol>CPU</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Load</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Memory</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Disk Operations</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Disk Space</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Processes</uicontrol></li>
            <li><uicontrol>Swap</uicontrol> (primary node or micro cloud only)</li>
          </ul></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Cloud Events</title>
      <p>Displays a list of events (including errors and warnings) on the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/>
        server. These events can be filtered by <uicontrol>Severity</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>Node
          ID</uicontrol>, or <uicontrol>Type</uicontrol>, or using a substring match in the
        <uicontrol>Search</uicontrol> field.</p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
