<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_scp_4xz_nt">
  <title>Console Settings</title>
  <shortdesc></shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The Management Console is mainly modified in <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Console</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>. Settings are saved as variables which you can subsequently deployed in HTML
        pages using the <xref href="http://embeddedjs.com/" format="html" scope="external">Embedded
          JavaScript (EJS)</xref> templating engine.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Product</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Product Name</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Overrides all occurrences of "<keyword keyref="prodLongNoCorp"/>"</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Company Name</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Overrides all occurrences of "<keyword keyref="corpLong"/>"</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Vendor Version</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Overrides all occurrences of the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> version number</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Default Locale</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the default locale of the console if the user's current locale is not recognized.
              <note>Currently, only the <codeph>en</codeph> and <codeph>de</codeph> localizations
              are available.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Client</title>
      <p>Sets the <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> CLI client version number and the paths or URLs to
        the downloadable archives for each platform.</p>
      <note>
        <p>Local paths are relative to the <filepath>/home/<keyword keyref="installDir"
            />/</filepath> directory (for the router node, see <b>Renaming the Client</b>). However,
          you can also use HTTP URLs for externally-hosted files.</p>
      </note>
      <p>The CLI client executables served from the VM are the latest version available at the time
        of a <keyword keyref="prodShort"/> VM release. However, updated clients may become available
        between releases. The current release of the <xref
          href="http://downloads.stackato.com/client/" format="html" scope="external"><keyword
            keyref="prodShort"/> CLI client</xref> is always available for download.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Look and Feel</title>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>FavIcon Logo URL</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the favicon that is displayed in the browser (a 32&#215;32 px
              <filepath>.png</filepath> file is recommended)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Header Logo URL</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the logo image that is displayed in the header (size can vary, but images larger
            than 50 px  vertically require a stylesheet adjustment)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Footer Logo URL</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the logo image that is displayed to use in the footer (size can vary, but images
            larger than 40 px vertically require a stylesheet adjustment)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><uicontrol>Background Color</uicontrol></dt>
          <dd>Sets the background color of the console</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Welcome Page</title>
      <p>Sets the HTML/EJS that is displayed in the <uicontrol>Welcome</uicontrol> view. You can use
        the <xref href="HCF_settings_variables.dita#concept_l3x_3d1_4t">settings variables</xref>
        and the <codeph>username</codeph> (current user) variable via EJS. However, plain HTML will
        work for simple use cases.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Support Page</title>
      <p>Sets the HTML/EJS that is displayed in the <uicontrol>Support</uicontrol> view. You can use
        the <xref href="HCF_settings_variables.dita#concept_l3x_3d1_4t">settings variables</xref>
        and the <codeph>support_email</codeph> variable (see <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Controller</uicontrol>
        </menucascade>).</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Eula Content</title>
      <p>Sets the HTML/EJS that is displayed in the EULA overlay. You can use the <xref
          href="HCF_settings_variables.dita#concept_l3x_3d1_4t">settings variables</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Custom Stylesheet</title>
      <p>Defines the CSS that will be applied after the default stylesheet loads, and overrides or
        replaces any style. You can use a custom stylesheet to change the layout and color of any
        element in the Management Console. <note type="tip">You can use a web development tool such
          as <xref href="http://getfirebug.com/" format="html" scope="external">Firebug</xref> or
            <xref href="https://developers.google.com/web/tools/setup/workspace/setup-devtools"
            format="html" scope="external">Chrome DevTools</xref> to inspect elements and find the
          relevant styles.</note></p>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
