<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cf_reference_roles">
  <title>Available Roles</title>
  <shortdesc>
    <draft-comment author="michaelk">
      <ul id="ul_x1f_2bn_g5">
        <li>To find descriptions for everything except <filepath>doppler</filepath>,
            <filepath>loggregator_trafficcontroller</filepath>, and <filepath>etcd</filepath>
          <xref href="https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/tree/v217/jobs" format="html"
            scope="external">go here</xref> and drill down to
            <uicontrol>&lt;component>/spec</uicontrol>.</li>
        <li>To find a description for Consul, <xref href="https://consul.io/intro/index.html"
            format="html" scope="external">go here</xref>.</li>
        <li>To find a description of <filepath>doppler</filepath>, <xref
            href="https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator/tree/lgr-cf-v217#architecture"
            format="html" scope="external">go here</xref>.</li>
        <li>To find a description of <filepath>etcd</filepath>, <xref
            href="https://github.com/coreos/etcd" format="html" scope="external">go here</xref> and
            <xref href="https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/getting-started-with-etcd.html"
            format="html" scope="external">also here</xref>.</li>
        <li>To find a description of <filepath>loggregator_trafficcontroller</filepath>, <xref
            href="https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator#architecture" format="html"
            scope="external">go here</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </draft-comment>
  </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <refsyn>Roles are the components of <keyword keyref="prodShort"/>. You can <xref
        href="hcf-reference-gato.dita#reference_cd3_bs3_rt/role_example">stop, start, and restart
        these components</xref> and <xref
        href="hcf-reference-gato.dita#reference_cd3_bs3_rt/config_get_example">manipulate their
        values</xref> using the <keyword keyref="adminUtil"/> Command-Line Interface (CLI)
      administration utility. To run <keyword keyref="adminUtil"/> commands you must
        <codeph>ssh</codeph> into any instance in your cluster.</refsyn>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_d1m_bbn_g5">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.5*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Role</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>api</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                cloud_controller_ng</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The Cloud Controller provides the primary Cloud Foundry API to the Cloud Foundry
              command-line interface (CLI). The Cloud Controller uses a database to keep tables for
              organizations, spaces, applications, services, service instances, user roles, so on.
              Typically, multiple instances of Cloud Controller are load balanced.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>api_worker</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                cloud_controller_worker</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The Cloud Controller worker processes background tasks.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>clock_global</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                cloud_controller_clock</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The Cloud Controller clock periodically schedules Cloud Controller clean-up tasks
              for application usage events, audit events, failed jobs, and so on. <note>Only one
                clock instance is necessary.</note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>consul</filepath></entry>
            <entry>Consul is a tool for discovering and configuring services in an infrastructure.
              It provides service discovery, health checking, and key/value storage and supports
              multiple datacenters.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>doppler</filepath></entry>
            <entry>Doppler is a component of Loggregator that is responsible for gathering logs from
              Metron agents. Doppler stores the logs in temporary buffers in addition to forwarding
              them to third-party syslog drains.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>etcd</filepath></entry>
            <entry>etcd is a key value store that provides shared configuration and service
              discovery for clusters. etcd runs on each machine in a cluster and gracefully handles
              master election during network partitions and the loss of the current master.
              Application containers running on your cluster can read and write data into
              etcd.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>ha_proxy</filepath></entry>
            <entry>The HAProxy server can terminate SSL in front of routers. <note>Each HAProxy
                instance should point to multiple routers.</note></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>hm9000</filepath></entry>
            <entry>HM9000 periodically compares the list of expected running applications as
              specified by the Cloud Controller against a list of actually running applications as
              reported by the DEAs. The HM9000 attempts to reconcile any differences between the two
              lists.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>loggregator_trafficcontroller</filepath></entry>
            <entry>Traffic Controller is a component of Loggregator that is responsible for handling
              client requests for logs, for gathering and collating messages from all Doppler
              servers, and for providing external API and message translation, as needed for legacy
              APIs.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>nats</filepath></entry>
            <entry>The NATS server provides publish-subscribe messaging system for the Cloud
              Controller, the DEA, HM9000, and other Cloud Foundry components.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>postgres</filepath></entry>
            <entry>The Postgres server provides a single instance Postgres database that can be used
              with the Cloud Controller or the UAA. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>router</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                gorouter</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The router maintains a list of live routes for the applications running on each
              DEA. The router load-balances requests (based on their host header) between each
              application instance registered for a specific route. It must be behind a load
              balancer that can terminate SSL connections.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>runner</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                dea_next</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) is responsible for running customer
              applications and maintaining associated routes as live. It also periodically
              advertises its capacity to Cloud Controllers and accepts requests to start and stop
              applications.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>stats</filepath><draft-comment author="michaelk">process (job) =
                collector</draft-comment></entry>
            <entry>The stats collector discovers the various components on the message bus and
              queries their <codeph>/healthz</codeph> and <codeph>/varz</codeph> interfaces. The
              collected metric data is published to collector plugins such as OpenTSDB, AWS
              CloudWatch, and DataDog.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><filepath>uaa</filepath></entry>
            <entry>User Account and Authentication (UAA) is the identity management service for
              Cloud Foundry. Its primary role is acting as an OAuth2 provider, issuing tokens for
              client applications when they act on behalf of Cloud Foundry users. UAA can also
              authenticate users with their Cloud Foundry credentials, and it can act as an SSO
              service using Cloud Foundry (or other) credentials. UAA has endpoints for managing
              user accounts and for registering OAuth2 clients and other management
              functions.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </refbody>
</reference>
