<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_phl_shc_rt">
  <title>Terraform Variables</title>
  <shortdesc>You must configure a number of Terraform variables in order to create a <keyword
      keyref="prodShort"/> cluster. You can configure the values of these variables in your
      <codeph>tfvars</codeph> file using the <codeph>overrides.tfvars.sample</codeph> file
    included with <keyword keyref="prodLong"/> as an example.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="author" content="Michael Khmelnitsky"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_fjz_c3c_rt">
      <desc>
        <note type="important">All values are required. Except for <codeph>dea_count</codeph>,
          specify all variable values in quotation marks. These values are case-sensitive.</note>
      </desc>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Variable</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
            <entry>Notes</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>cluster_admin_username</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The initial username for your cluster</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>cluster_admin_password</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The initial password for your cluster</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>dea_count</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The number of Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) hosts that you want to create</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>dns_server</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The DNS server of your local environment</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>The default value is <codeph>8.8.8.8</codeph>. If your local
              environment does not have a DNS server, remove this variable.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>http_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The address of your HTTP proxy</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>If you do not use a proxy, leave the value blank.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>https_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The address of your HTTPS proxy</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>If you do not use a proxy, leave the value blank.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>key_file</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The location and name of the private key <codeph>pem</codeph> file associated
              with your key pair, relative to your <codeph>tfvars</codeph> file.</entry>
            <entry>For convenience, you can place the <codeph>pem</codeph> and
                <codeph>tfvars</codeph>files into the same directory.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>no_proxy</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The addresses for which a proxy should not be used</entry>
            <entry>
              <note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only variable.</note>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_availability_zone</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The unique regional location on which the deployment is launched</entry>
            <entry>
              <ul id="ul_gkj_zp3_h5">
                <li>The default value for <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/> is
                  <codeph>nova</codeph>.</li>
                <li>The default value for <keyword keyref="pubCloudShort"/> is
                  <codeph>az1</codeph>.</li>
              </ul>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_base_image_id</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The ID of your Ubuntu 14.04.3 cloud image</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>To determine the ID of the base image, run the <codeph>nova
                image-list</codeph> command.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_flavor_id.core</codeph></entry>
            <entry morerows="1">The OpenStack flavor, a virtual hardware template that defines the
              specifications of the specified node</entry>
            <entry morerows="1"><note type="warning">These are <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variables.</note><ul id="ul_j5w_4hh_h5">
                <li><codeph>4</codeph> (larger than or equals to 8 GB)</li>
                <li><codeph>3</codeph> (larger than or equals to 4 GB)</li>
              </ul>For more information about flavors, see the <xref
                href="http://docs.openstack.org/openstack-ops/content/flavors.html" format="html"
                scope="external">OpenStack documentation</xref>. For more information on managing
              compute flavors, see the <xref
                href="http://docs.openstack.org/admin-guide-cloud/compute-flavors.html"
                format="html" scope="external">Helion OpenStack documentation</xref>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_flavor_id.dea</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_floating_ip_pool</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The external network from whose subnet floating IP addresses are
              allocated</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>The default value is <codeph>ext-net</codeph>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_keypair</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The name of your key pair</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_network_id</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The network ID</entry>
            <entry>To determine the network ID , run the <codeph>neutron net-list</codeph>
              command.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_network_name</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The name of your network</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><codeph>openstack_region</codeph></entry>
            <entry>The region of your tenant</entry>
            <entry><note type="warning">This is a <keyword keyref="pubCloudShort"/>-only
                variable.</note>The default value is <codeph>us-east</codeph></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <example>
      <title>A sample <codeph>.tfvars</codeph> file for <keyword keyref="opnStckShort"/></title>
      <codeblock>openstack_base_image_id = "123ab3cd-1a23-1a23-ab12-1234a567b890"

openstack_flavor_id.core = "4"
openstack_flavor_id.dea = "3"

openstack_availability_zone = "nova"
openstack_keypair = "myKeyPair"
openstack_network_id = "123a1ab1-12a1-123a-1a12-a1234a123a12"
openstack_network_name = "myNetwork"
openstack_floating_ip_pool = "ext-net"
dns_server = "203.0.113.0"
key_file = "myKeyFile.pem"

cluster_admin_username = "myClusterUsername"
cluster_admin_password = "myClusterPassword123"

dea_count = 1

http_proxy = "http://myProxy.example.com:8080"
https_proxy = "https://myProxy.example.com:443"

no_proxy = "198.51.100.0,.example.com"</codeblock>
    </example>
    <example>
      <title>A sample <codeph>.tfvars</codeph> file</title>
      <codeblock>openstack_availability_zone = "az1"
openstack_keypair = "myKeyPair"
openstack_network_id = "123a1ab1-12a1-123a-1a12-a1234a123a12"
openstack_network_name = "myNetwork"
openstack_region = "us-west"
cluster_admin_username = "myClusterUsername"
cluster_admin_password = "myClusterPassword123"
key_file = "myKeyFile.pem"
dea_count = 1</codeblock>
    </example>
  </refbody>
</reference>
