<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_t3w_fnh_ts">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Install the Messaging Broker Service</title>
  <body>
    <p>This section provides details on installing the Messaging service for the Development
      Platform.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>The HDP Installer 2.0, also known as HDPI, must already <xref href="devplatform_install_platform.dita#topic_gly_xmh_ts">be installed</xref>.</li>
          <li>Populate the <xref href="cloud/cloud_messaging.dita">Messaging section</xref> of the
              <codeph>clouds.yaml </codeph>file.</li>
          <li>You must know the NTP server and DNS server IP addresses.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Installation</title>
      <ol>
            <li>SSH into the HP Helion OpenStack Deployer. (This is the same location where the HDPI
          has been installed.)</li>
        <li>Source the Virtual
          Environment.<codeblock>stack@hlm:~$ source /opt/stack/venv/dev_platform_installer-devplat_installer-1.0.0/bin/activate </codeblock></li>
        <li>Install the Messaging service installation files. <ol>
            <li>If you <xref href="install_offline.dita#topic_w25_hqp_xt">pre-downloaded</xref> the
              installation file, run the following command to install
              it:<codeblock>cd <i>&lt;directory where the pre-downloaded file is></i>
openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi messaging install <i>&lt;filename></i></codeblock><note>When installing
  pre-downloaded files, make sure you run the installer from the same directory where the
  installation files are. If the installer cannot find a file with the name you provided in
  the local directory, it will attempt to download the files again. </note></li>
          <li>If you did not pre-download the installation file, <ol>
                <li>Find the most recent version of the file. Note that this command provides only a
                  quick list of recent files; there are <xref
                    href="install_listOptions.dita#listContent">more complete listing options</xref>
                  available that include installation
                  status.<pre>openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi list</pre>The output should look
                  similar
                  to:<pre>+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+
| service                    | id             | version   | state      |
+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+
| Helion Code Engine         | wscatalog.2776 | 1.0.0     | available  |
| als                        | wscatalog.2765 | 2.0.0.539 | available  |
| als                        | wscatalog.2800 | 2.0.0.548 | available  |
| database                   | wscatalog.2762 | 2.0.0.32  | available  |
| database                   | wscatalog.2803 | 2.0.0.37  | available  |
| messaging                  | wscatalog.2761 | 1.0.0     | available  |<ph outputclass="codehighlight">
| messaging                  | wscatalog.2796 | 1.0.0.165 | available  |</ph>
+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+</pre></li>
                <li>Find the<b> ID number</b> of the most recent version of the service (the highest
                  ID number for that service).</li>
                <li>If desired, inspect the installation files for size, version, and other detailed
                  information.<codeblock>openstack hdpi show wscatalog.#### --os-cloud mycloud</codeblock></li>
                <li>Begin the download and
                  installation:<codeblock>openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi messaging install wscatalog.####</codeblock></li>
              </ol></li>
          </ol></li>
        
        <li>Launch the Messaging Deployer VM using the
            HDPI.<note>When
            the launch command indicates that it finished and provides the IP address for the
            Messaging Deployer VM, SSH into the Messaging Deployer VM and look for the
              <codeph>/home/stack/helion</codeph> directory. Once that directory has been created
            and populated, continue to the next step. Do <b>not</b> attempt to continue until the
            directory has been populated; this may take a few minutes after the launch command
            indicates that it has completed.
            </note><codeblock>(dev_platform_installer-devplat_installer-1.0.0)stack@hlm:~$ openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi messaging launch  </codeblock><p>This
            will return output similar to the following:
          </p><codeblock>=show the server===========================================
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Field                                | Value                                                                              |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| OS-EXT-AZ:availability_zone          | nova                                                                               |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:host                 | helion-cp1-comp0006-mgmt                                                           |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:hypervisor_hostname  | helion-cp1-comp0006-mgmt                                                           |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:instance_name        | instance-00000016                                                                  |
| OS-EXT-STS:power_state               | 1                                                                                  |
| OS-EXT-STS:task_state                | None                                                                               |
| OS-EXT-STS:vm_state                  | active                                                                             |
| OS-SRV-USG:launched_at               | 2015-11-04T22:45:43.000000                                                         |
| OS-SRV-USG:terminated_at             | None                                                                               |
| accessIPv4                           |                                                                                    |
| accessIPv6                           |                                                                                    |
| addresses                            | <ph outputclass="codehighlight">SVC=10.241.145.12</ph>                             |
| config_drive                         |                                                                                    |
| created                              | 2015-11-04T22:44:29Z                                                               |
| flavor                               | m1.medium (3)                                                                      |
| hostId                               | 8d1c5e76b6cbc4616ee9ee1ba4d66451f921ac5e4395b4996c04aaa0                           |
| id                                   | 8fb9334e-ea13-4a1e-aa8c-bd20148f7a42                                               |
| image                                | msgaas-1.0.0-rc5_cloud-1.0.20151029T002941Z (4b1ea7c6-24a6-4ae7-9456-e65130de51f9) |
| key_name                             | msgaas                                                                             |
| name                                 | messaging_deployer                                                                 |
| os-extended-volumes:volumes_attached | []                                                                                 |
| progress                             | 0                                                                                  |
| project_id                           | 02c783d40f7b4d969a9b6847c07e5df2                                                   |
| properties                           |                                                                                    |
| security_groups                      | [{u'name': u'default'}]                                                            |
| status                               | ACTIVE                                                                             |
| updated                              | 2015-11-04T22:45:43Z                                                               |
| user_id                              | c241938bec504ed6ac284e432cff32df                                                   |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
=done======================================================
Scripts complete.
Completed launching messaging</codeblock></li>
        <li>Log in to and Initialize the Messaging Deployer VM<ol id="ol_nr4_nqr_wt">
            <li>SSH into the Messaging Deployer VM using the IP address provided (highlighted above) after the launch
              command completed.</li>
            <li>Copy the <codeph>msgaas</codeph> deployment model.<note>The <codeph>cp</codeph>
                command must be used <b>exactly</b> as shown - including the /* on the end of the
                example model path.
              </note><codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/msgaas-1.0.0-rc1$ cd ~/helion/
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ cp -r examples/msgaas/* my_cloud/definition/
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ cp ~/platform-pass-through.yml my_cloud/definition/data/pass-through/platform-pass-through.yml</codeblock></li>
            <li>Using Git, persist the input model that you are about to deploy with. This
              information is required for the Pre-Install playbook, which is executed later in this
              installation
              process.<codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ git add -A
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ git commit -a -m "Add MSGaaS Default Model"</codeblock></li>
            <li id="customize">Change to the default values in order to customize the deployment
              model. <note type="important">Do not skip this step or the installation playbooks may
                not execute as expected in your
              environment.</note><codeblock># Open the cloudConfig.yml file and provide appropriate NTP/DNS server IP addresses
# If you are not sure, use the IP addresses of the HP Helion OpenStack control plane nodes
# The NTP and DNS servers must be reachable from your HP Helion OpenStack SVC network

stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ cd my_cloud/definition/
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/my_cloud/definition$ ls
cloudConfig.yml  data
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/my_cloud/definition$ nano cloudConfig.yml    # this is the file where the changes need to be made</codeblock></li>
            <li id="TLS">This step is required for configuring TLS in Cue API endpoint.  <note>For production environments, TLS (Cue API public endpoint URL with SSL
                support (https)) is recommended. If not using TLS, for example, in a non-production
                proof-of-concept environment, skip this
              step.</note></li>
            <li>Navigate to and open the <codeph>network_groups.yml</codeph> file for
                editing.<codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/my_cloud/definition$ cd data
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data$ nano network_groups.yml </codeblock><ol>
          <li>If an IP-based TLS certificate is used, comment out the
                    <codeph>external-name:</codeph> field. For name-based TLS, provide the FQDN name in
                  the  <codeph>external-name:</codeph> field and copy the signed certificate to the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/tls/certs/</codeph> directory. </li>
            <li>Comment out the <codeph>components:</codeph> list and uncomment the
                    <codeph>tls-components:</codeph> list.</li>
            <li>Un-comment the <codeph>tls-components:</codeph> list.</li>
            <li>provide the TLS certificate file name in
                  the <codeph>cert-file</codeph>: field. This name will have to match the name of the cert-file placed in <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/tls/certs/</codeph> (e.g. <b>msgaas-cert</b>).
              <note>The certificate file must contain both the certificate and the private key data.</note></li></ol></li>
          <li> Using Git, persist these changes. This information is required for the Pre-Install playbook,
              which is executed later in this installation
              process.<codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/pass-through$ cd ~/helion
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ git add -A # Required if you copied a new cert file
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ git commit -a -m "Configured Deployment Model"</codeblock></li>

          </ol></li>
        <li>Run the Playbooks <note type="important">After each playbook runs, both
              <codeph>unreachable</codeph> and <codeph>failed</codeph> should be zero (0). This
            indicates success. If not, check the output for error messages, address the errors, and
            try running the playbook again.</note><note>If more detailed output is desired, add the
            debug option (-vvv) or verbose debug option (-vvvv) to any ansible playbook call.
            (ansible-playbook)</note><ol>
            <li> Run the Pre-Install Playbook <note>For the SVC network, the only valid name is
                "SVC".</note><note> If the External Network is not named <codeph>ext-net</codeph>,
                update the value of the <b>external_net_name</b> variable in
                  <codeph>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/openstack-operations/defaults/main.yml</codeph>
                to the correct
                value.</note><codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ source ~/user.osrc
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion$ cd hos/ansible/
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost hlm-pre-install.yml </codeblock><p>The
                output should look similar to the
              following:</p><codeblock>PLAY RECAP ********************************************************************
openstack-operations | preinstall | Create service ports ---------------- 5.14s
openstack-operations | lookup-keystone-ids | Lookup Project ID ---------- 2.98s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Ensure SVC Network Exists ----------- 2.75s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Ensure External Network Exists ------ 2.73s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Create Floating IPs necessary for load-balancers --- 2.17s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Identify pre-existing floating IPs --- 2.07s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Set Neutron Quotas ------------------ 2.07s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Set Cinder Quotas ------------------- 2.01s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Create Virtual IPs necessary for load-balancers externally managed --- 1.81s
openstack-operations | preinstall | Set Nova Quotas --------------------- 1.77s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: ----------------------------------------------------------------- 27.45s
localhost                  : ok=20   changed=14   <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph> </codeblock></li>
            <li>Configure the Input Model for TLS Support in Cue API (Optional).<note>If using
                name-based TLS, skip this step, otherwise the deployment model <xref href="#topic_t3w_fnh_ts/TLS">customization</xref> performed previously must have included the TLS
                configuration step.</note><ol>
                <li>Navigate to and open the <codeph>network_groups.yml</codeph> file, capture the ip address shown in
                    the <codeph>external-ip:</codeph> field.  Now create and sign an IP-based TLS certificate based on this IP address.</li>
                <li>Copy your signed certificate into
                    <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/tls/certs/</codeph>.  Ensure the certificate name matches the name you provided in <codeph>cert-file:</codeph> field. </li>
                <li>Using Git, commit the changes.
                  <codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ git add -A
stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ git commit -a -m "Configured Deployment Model"</codeblock></li>
              </ol></li>
            <li>Run the Config Processor Playbook
                  <codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml </codeblock><p><note>If
                  you have performed a full installation previously, you <b>must</b> remove the Cue
                  user and service from Keystone <b>before</b> running this playbook again. <ul
                    id="ul_rsf_tfs_wt">
                    <li> SSH into the HPE Helion OpenStack lifecycle manager (deployer node), source
                      the keystone.osrc file, and then execute these
                      commands:<codeblock>openstack service delete cue
openstack user delete cue </codeblock></li>
                  </ul></note>Successful output should look similar to the following.
              </p><codeblock>PLAY RECAP ******************************************************************** 
config-processor | run-config-processor | Run Configuration Processor over the given cloud configuration --- 2.44s
git-operations | _assemble-working-directory | Assemble scratch content --- 0.76s
git-operations | _persist-to-git | Prep new commit ---------------------- 0.69s
config-processor | configure | Sync ansible vars for cloud deployment --- 0.67s
config-processor | add-localhost | Add localhost group entry ------------ 0.55s
config-processor | configure | Make directories required for osconfig network configuration --- 0.33s
config-processor | configure | Sync generated network artefacts for cloud deployment/update --- 0.32s
config-processor | configure | Copy hosts.hf for osconfig playbooks ----- 0.28s
config-processor | configure | Copy ansible hosts file for cloud deployment (verb_hosts) --- 0.28s
config-processor | add-localhost | Add localhost group ------------------ 0.17s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: ------------------------------------------------------------------ 7.99s
localhost                  : ok=21   changed=14   <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0 </ph>       </codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the Ready Deployment
                Playbook<codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml </codeblock><p>Successful
                output should look similar to the following. <note>Ignore the TASK/msg message at
                  the end of the output. Do not run the playbook as indicated; that playbook must be
                  run later in the installation
              process.</note></p><codeblock>PLAY RECAP ******************************************************************** 
git-operations | _assemble-working-directory | Assemble scratch content --- 0.73s
config-processor | configure | Sync ansible vars for cloud deployment --- 0.54s
config-processor | configure | Sync ansible vars for cloud deployment --- 0.49s
git-operations | _promote-from-staging | Update branches ---------------- 0.41s
config-processor | configure | Make directories required for osconfig network configuration --- 0.30s
config-processor | configure | Make directories required for osconfig network configuration --- 0.27s
config-processor | configure | Sync generated network artefacts for cloud deployment/update --- 0.26s
config-processor | configure | Sync generated network artefacts for cloud deployment/update --- 0.25s
config-processor | configure | Copy ansible hosts file for cloud deployment (verb_hosts) --- 0.24s
config-processor | configure | Copy hosts.hf for osconfig playbooks ----- 0.22s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: ------------------------------------------------------------------ 5.96s
localhost                  : ok=20   changed=11   <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph>

TASK: [git-operations | ready-deployment-tree-help | Tell the user what to expect] ***
ok: [localhost] => {
    "msg": "The directory /home/stack/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible contains a prepared ansible tree 
ready to run your deployment. You should cd into that directory and run: ansible-playbook -i
hosts/verb_hosts site.yml"
}</codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the Boot Infrastructure Playbook <note>This step takes approximately 5
                minutes.</note> Once this is complete, all in-cloud infrastructure (VMs, Networks,
              Routers, Floating IPs, ports, security groups, etc) will have been created.
                <codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/helion/hos/ansible$ cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
stack@messaging-deployer:~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost hlm-boot-infra.yml </codeblock><p>Successful
                output should look similar to the
              following:</p><codeblock>PLAY RECAP ********************************************************************
openstack-operations | create_instance | Create controlplane instance - 227.92s
openstack-operations | create_instance | Give cloud-init time to fetch SSH keys -- 60.07s
openstack-operations | create_security_groups | Create tcp/icmp security groups rules -- 34.59s
openstack-operations | create_instance | Extract port-id --------------- 19.89s
openstack-operations | create_instance | Wait for SSH to become active -- 17.46s
openstack-operations | create_port | Update ports to include appropriate security group(s) -- 17.24s
openstack-operations | create_security_groups | Create security groups -- 16.18s
openstack-operations | create_port | Associate VIP to instance ports --- 14.85s
openstack-operations | create_port | Create instance ports ------------- 13.97s
openstack-operations | create_security_groups | Create other security groups rules (e.g. 112 protcol) --- 9.33s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: ---------------------------------------------------------------- 471.97s
localhost                  : ok=35   changed=19   <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph></codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the Site Playbook <note type="caution">Unlike all the previous ansible plays,
                the inventory file supplied to this play is <codeph>hosts/verb_hosts</codeph> and
                not <codeph>hosts/localhost</codeph></note><note>This step takes approximately 10 to
                15 minutes.
              </note><codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml</codeblock>
              Successful output should look similar to the following:<note> If this playbook does
                not run successfully, run it again before trying any more advanced
                troubleshooting.</note><codeblock>PLAY RECAP ******************************************************************** 
FND-MDB | start | Start MySQL ------------------------------------------ 85.62s
FND-MDB | install | Install MDB packages ------------------------------- 75.00s
rabbitmq | install | Install rabbitmq application ---------------------- 20.34s
rabbitmq | install | Install rabbitmq application ---------------------- 20.28s
rabbitmq | install | Install rabbitmq application ---------------------- 19.75s
DES-PDN | install | Install Power DNS packages ------------------------- 17.48s
FND-MDB | configure | Bootstrap MDB Master ----------------------------- 11.26s
logging-producer | configure | Setup config files for services that have subscribed for logging -- 10.87s
logging-producer | configure | Include default log files for centralized logging --- 9.83s
Install keepalived package ---------------------------------------------- 9.21s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total: ---------------------------------------------------------------- 611.95s
msgaas-msgaas-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt : ok=377  changed=190  <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0 </ph>  
msgaas-msgaas-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt : ok=381  changed=194  <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph>   
msgaas-msgaas-ccp-c1-m3-mgmt : ok=382  changed=196  <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph>   
localhost                  : ok=34   changed=15   <ph outputclass="codehighlight">unreachable=0    failed=0</ph>   </codeblock></li>
          </ol></li></ol></section>
    <section>
      <title>Finding the IP address for nodes in a name-based installation</title>
      <p>If you used name-based TLS in step 5.f.1, you can find the IP address of the service
        endpoint by doing one of the following:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Connect to the application lifecycle (deployer) node</li>
        <li>Execute the following command to get the service endpoint address from the Hosts file:
          <codeblock>cat /etc/hosts</codeblock>
          This will produce output similar to the following:
          <codeblock>
    # Cloud: entry-scale-kvm-ceph
            
    # Localhost Information
    127.0.0.1      localhost
            
    #
    # Network Group: EXTERNAL-API
    #
    # Network: EXTERNAL-API-NET
    <codeph outputclass="codehighlight">10.241.151.2     helion-cp1-c1-m1-extapi</codeph>
    10.241.151.3     helion-cp1-c1-m2-extapi
    10.241.151.4     helion-cp1-c1-m3-extapi
          </codeblock></li>
        <li>Execute the following command to get the service endpoint address from Neutron:
        <codeblock>source service.osrc
neutron floatingip-list</codeblock>
          This will produce output similar to the following:
          <codeblock>+--------------------------------------+------------------+---------------------+---------+
| id                                   | fixed_ip_address | floating_ip_address | port_id |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+---------------------+---------+
| 6c7dc113-e6ce-4b31-bc20-c71eae8f21f4 |                  | <codeph outputclass="codehighlight">10.241.150.3</codeph>        |         |
| 70babfb9-ff57-4cfb-ac19-e263105e41ce |                  | 10.241.150.5        |         |
| 88ac0e65-e96b-4e53-9e16-8cbbba31efbe |                  | 10.241.150.4        |         |
+--------------------------------------+------------------+---------------------+---------+
          </codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Verifying the Installation</title><ol>
        <li>Set endpoint type to internal (Cannot access public endpoint from messaging deployer)
          API.<codeblock>export OS_ENDPOINT_TYPE=internalURL
export OS_INTERFACE=internal</codeblock></li>
        <li>List all clusters. <note>Since you have not yet created any clusters, this list of
            clusters will be empty, but it should execute without returning any error messages.
          </note><codeblock>stack@messaging-deployer:~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible$ /opt/stack/service/cueclient/venv/bin/openstack message-broker cluster list</codeblock></li>
      </ol>If you have configured TLS, make sure that the Cue public endpoint begins with https and
      not just http:<codeblock>openstack catalog list</codeblock>
    </section>
    
  </body>
  <related-links><link scope="external" format="html" href="http://python-cueclient.readthedocs.org/en/latest/index.html"><linktext>python-cueclient documentation</linktext></link></related-links>
</topic>
