<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_txg_cnh_ts">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Install the Application Lifecycle Service
    (ALS)</title>
  <body><section>
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <ul id="ul_p2s_flz_wt">
        <li>The HDP Installer 2.0, also known as HDPI, must already <xref
            href="devplatform_install_platform.dita#topic_gly_xmh_ts">be installed</xref>.</li>
        <li>There is no additional section in the <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> file for the
                    Application Lifecycle Service.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
      <section>
            <title>Install ALS</title>
            <ol>
                <li>SSH into the HP Helion OpenStack Deployer. (This is the same location where the
                    HDPI has been installed.)</li>
                <li> Source the Virtual
                    Environment.<pre>source /opt/stack/venv/dev_platform_installer-devplat_installer-1.0.0/bin/activate </pre></li>
                <li>Install the Application Lifecycle Service <ol>
                        <li>If you <xref href="install_offline.dita#topic_w25_hqp_xt"
                                >pre-downloaded</xref> the installation file, run the following
                            command to install
                                it:<codeblock>cd <i>&lt;directory where the pre-downloaded file is></i>
openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi als install <i>&lt;filename></i></codeblock><note>Make
                                sure you run the installer from the same directory where the
                                installation files are. If the installer cannot find a file with the
                                name you provided in the local directory, it will attempt to
                                download the files again. </note></li>
                        <li>If you did not pre-download the file: 
                            
                            <ol>
                                <li>Find the most recent version of the file.  Note that this
                                    command provides only a quick list of recent files; there are
                                        <xref href="install_listOptions.dita#listContent">more
                                        complete listing options</xref> available that include
                                    installation
                                    status.<pre>openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi list</pre> The
                                    output should look similar
                                    to:<pre>+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+
| service                    | id             | version   | state      |
+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+
| Helion Code Engine         | wscatalog.2776 | 1.0.0     | available  |
| als                        | wscatalog.2765 | 2.0.0.539 | available  |
<b>| als                        | wscatalog.2800 | 2.0.0.548 | available  |</b>
| database                   | wscatalog.2762 | 2.0.0.32  | available  |
| database                   | wscatalog.2803 | 2.0.0.37  | available  |
| messaging                  | wscatalog.2761 | 1.0.0     | available  |
| messaging                  | wscatalog.2796 | 1.0.0.165 | available  |
+----------------------------+----------------+-----------+------------+</pre></li>
                                <li>Find the<b> ID number</b> of the most recent version of the
                                    service (the highest ID number for that service).</li>
                                <li>If desired, inspect the installation files for size, version,
                                    and other detailed
                                    information.<codeblock>openstack hdpi show wscatalog.#### --os-cloud mycloud</codeblock></li>
                                <li>Begin the download and
                                        installation:<codeblock>openstack --os-cloud mycloud hdpi als install wscatalog.####</codeblock><note>
                                        Downloading may take a significant amount of time; depending
                                        on network traffic, it could take 20-90
                                    minutes.</note>During installation, this command will generate
                                    output similar to the following:
                                    <codeblock>Downloading Application Lifecycle Service which is available 
Application Lifecycle Service not downloaded (available) 
Application Lifecycle Service not downloaded (downloading)
... 
Application Lifecycle Service is (downloaded) 
Staging Application Lifecycle Service in Glance/Swift 
Application Lifecycle Service is staged 
UI installed for application lifecycle service 
Create service endpoint for service application lifecycle service 
Completed installing application </codeblock></li></ol></li></ol></li></ol></section><section><title>Next Steps</title><p>If you have completed installation, here are the next steps in working with the Application Lifecycle Service:</p>
                                    <ul>
                                        <li><xref href="../devplatform.deploy-ALS.dita">Create a cluster using Horizon.</xref></li>
                                        <li><xref href="../helion/CLI/cf_mgmt_createcluster.dita">Create a cluster from the command line.</xref></li>
                                        <li><xref href="../helion/admin/console/console_intro.dita">Log in to the ALS Management console.</xref></li>
                                        <li><xref href="../helion/user/deploy/deploy_index.dita">Deploy an application.</xref></li>
                                    </ul>
                                </section>
        
  </body>
</topic>
