<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sm4_tm1_h5">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Installation Overview</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>These instructions are for installing the HPE Helion Development Platform on an HPE Helion
          <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> deployment. The instructions for <xref
          href="http://www.hp.com/go/cloudsystem/docs" format="html" scope="external">installing on
          an HPE Helion CloudSystem deployment</xref> are different.</p>
      <p>The HPE Helion Development Platform is made up of several services. Each of these services
        can be installed independently. You do not have to install them in any particular order.</p>
      <p>Services are installed using the HDP Installer, also known as HDPI. This tool is a plugin
        for the python-openstackclient (OSC). You must download and set up the HDPI before
        installing any services.</p>
      <p>During installation, the HDPI refers to a configuration file named
          <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> for the parameters it needs. There is only one
          <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> file. Each service has its own section within that file
        containing parameters specific to that service. The information must be in the
          <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> file before you install the service. However, since each
        service can be installed separately, you can populate the whole file at once, or only one
        section at a time, as you prefer.</p>
      <p>During installation, the required files will be downloaded from the Helion Download Network
        (HDN). Depending on network traffic, this may take up to 90 minutes. This download may also
        be problematic if your HPE Helion OpenStack lifecycle manager (previously known as the
        deployer node), is behind significant layers of security. To avoid possible delay,
        interruption, or just for convenience, you can download the files to portable storage media
        before beginning the installation process. If the installer finds the files already in the
        appropriate location, it will not download them again.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>General Installation Procedure</title>
      <p>You do not have to install all available services at the same time.</p>
   <ol>
        <li>(optional) <xref href="install_offline.dita">Download the installation files</xref> from
          the Helion Download Network (HDN) and, if necessary, copy them to the correct
          location.</li>
        <li>Ensure all <xref href="devplatform_install_prereq.dita">prerequisites are
            satisfied</xref>: check the environmental configuration, gather required information,
          and verify required connectivity.</li>
        <li>Download and <xref href="devplatform_install_platform.dita">set up the HDPI</xref>.
          During this process, you will create and minimally populate the
            <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> file.</li>
        <li>Populate the <codeph>clouds.yaml</codeph> file with the information required for the
          next service you intend to install.</li>
        <li>Using the HDPI, install a service.<ul id="ul_otm_sbb_h5">
            <li><xref href="devplatform_install_ALS.dita">Application Lifecycle Service</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="devplatform_install_database.dita">Database Service</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="devplatform_install_messaging.dita">Messaging Broker Service</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="install_engine.dita">HPE Helion Code Engine</xref></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Repeat steps 4 and 5 until you have completed your installation.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
