<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_w25_hqp_xt">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Downloading Before Installation</title>
  <body>
    <p>If downloading during installation is not your preferred option, or if  security measures
      prevent direct download, you can download the files prior to beginning installation. If you do
      not download the files prior to installation, they will be downloaded as part of the
      installation process.</p>
    <p>The easiest option is to download directly to the physical machine hosting the HPE Helion
      OpenStack lifecycle manager. If you can not download directly to that location, download the
      files to portable storage media and then copy the files onto the lifecycle manager. When
      downloading or copying, make sure there is enough space; the file sizes can be significant. </p>
    <ol id="ol_bmh_vqp_xt">
      <li>Using your preferred Web browser, navigate to the <xref
          href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Home/Show" format="html"
          scope="external">HPE Helion Download Network</xref> (HDN).</li>
      <li>If necessary, create an account, and then log in.</li>
      <li>Click the <b>Download</b> button in the left navigation panel.</li>
      <li>Click to select the service you wish to download. A complete installation consists of:<ul
          id="ul_bdc_vtb_h5">
          <li>HPE Helion Development Platform Installer (HDPI)</li>
          <li>Application Lifecycle Service (ALS)</li>
          <li>Database Service</li>
          <li>Message Broker Service</li>
          <li>HPE Helion Code Engine</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Click the blue <b>Download</b> button at the top right of the screen to begin the
        download. </li>
      <li>After you have finished downloading, follow the installation instructions provided for
        each service.</li>
    </ol>
    <note type="important">When installing services using pre-downloaded files, the HDPI must be
      launched from the same directory that contains the installation files. If the installer cannot
      find a required file in the same directory, it will attempt to download the files again. </note>
  </body>
</topic>
