<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_l51_22v_xs">
  <title>Network Port Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <p>The ALS <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-micro-cloud"
        >micro-cloud</xref> runs with the following ports exposed: <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Port</entry>
              <entry>Type</entry>
              <entry>Service</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>22</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>ssh</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>25</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>smtp</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>80</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>http</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>111</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>portmapper</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>111</entry>
              <entry>udp</entry>
              <entry>portmapper</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>443</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>https</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>3306</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>mysql</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>5432</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>postgresql</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>5678</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>DEA directory server</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>8181</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>upload server</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>9001</entry>
              <entry>tcp</entry>
              <entry>supervisord</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> On a production cluster, or a micro cloud running on a cloud hosting provider, only
      ports 22 (SSH), 80 (HTTPS) and 443 (HTTPS) need to be exposed externally (e.g. for the Router
      / Core node). </p>
     <p> 
      Within the cluster (i.e. behind the firewall), it is advisable to allow
      communication between the cluster nodes on all ports. This can be done
      safely by using the security group / security policy tools provided by
      your hypervisor. <!-- :      
      * :ref:`EC2 Security Group Settings server-vm-ec2-firewall`
        * :ref:`HPE Cloud ServicesSecurity Group Settings server-vm-hpcs-firewall` --></p>
          
         <p> If you wish to restrict ports between some nodes, for example, if you do not
          have the option to use security groups, the following summary describes
          which ports are used by which components. <b>Source</b> nodes initiate the
           communication; <b>Destination</b> nodes need to listen on the specified port.</p>
          
<p>
      <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0* 1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_zjp_nhv_xs">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Port Range</stentry>
          <stentry>Type</stentry>
          <stentry>Source</stentry>
          <stentry>Destination</stentry>
          <stentry>Required by</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>22</stentry>
          <stentry>tcp</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>all nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>ssh/scp/sshfs </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>4222 </stentry>
          <stentry>tcp</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry> controller</stentry>
          <stentry><xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-NATS">NATS</xref></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>3306</stentry>
          <stentry>tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>dea,controller</stentry>
          <stentry> mysql nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>MySQL </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>5432</stentry>
          <stentry>tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>dea,controller</stentry>
          <stentry> postgresql nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>PostgreSQL</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry> 5454</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp</stentry>
          <stentry>all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry> controller </stentry>
          <stentry>redis </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>6464</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>applog (redis) </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>7000 - 7999</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp</stentry>
          <stentry>all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>``kato log tail`` </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>7474</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>config (redis) </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>8181</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>router</stentry>
          <stentry> controller </stentry>
          <stentry>upload server </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>9001</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>controller</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry><xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-supervisord">supervisord</xref></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>9022</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp</stentry>
          <stentry>dea </stentry>
          <stentry>controller </stentry>
          <stentry>droplets </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>9022</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>controller</stentry>
          <stentry> dea </stentry>
          <stentry>droplets </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>9025</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>controller</stentry>
          <stentry> router </stentry>
          <stentry>stackato-rest </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>9026</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>controller</stentry>
          <stentry> all nodes</stentry>
          <stentry>stackato-rest </stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>41000 - 61000</stentry>
          <stentry> tcp </stentry>
          <stentry>dea,controller</stentry>
          <stentry> service nodes </stentry>
          <stentry>service gateways </stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </p>
          
    <p>Each node can be internally firewalled using <xref href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/man8/iptables.8.html" format="html" scope="external">iptables</xref> to apply the above rules.</p>
            
            <p>Comments:</p>
         <ul>  
           <li>Ports 80 and 443 need only be open to the world on router nodes.</li>
            
           <li>Port 4222 should be open on all nodes for <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-NATS">NATS</xref> communication with the MBUS IP
        (core Cloud Controller)</li>
            
             <li>Port 9022 should be open to allow transfer of droplets to and
               from the DEAs and Cloud Controllers.</li>
            
               <li>Port 7845 is required if you plan to stream logs from all nodes
                 in a cluster using the <codeph>kato log tail</codeph> command.</li>
            
                 <li>External access on port 22 can be restricted if necessary to the subnet you
                   expect to connect from. If you are providing the <codeph>helion ssh</codeph> feature to your users
        (recommended), define a distinct security group for the public-facing Cloud Controller node
        that is the same as a generic group, but has the additional policy of allowing SSH (Port 22)
        from hosts external to the cluster.</li>
            
                   <li>Within the cluster, port 22 should be open on all hosts to allow
            administrative access over SSH. Port 22 is also used to mount
            Filesystem service partitions in application containers on the DEA
            nodes (via SSHFS).</li>
            
                     <li>The optional Harbor port service has a configurable port range
                       (default 41000 - 61000) which can be exposed externally if required.</li>
         </ul> 
            <section><title>Service Nodes</title>In addition to the ports listed above for service
      nodes and gateways, several service nodes assign a port for each individual user-requested
      service instance. These ranges should be kept open between DEA nodes and their respective
      service nodes. The default ranges are: <ul>
        <li>harbor: 35000 - 40000</li>
        <li>memcached: 45001 - 50000</li>
        <li>mongodb: 15001 - 25000</li>
        <li>rabbit: 35001 - 40000</li>
        <li>rabbit3: 25001 - 30000</li>
        <li>redis: 5000 - 15000</li>
      </ul><p>You can check the currently configured port range for each service with <codeph>kato
          config</codeph> commands like <codeph>kato config get redis_node
      port_range</codeph>).</p></section>
          <section id="ports-hosts-allowed"><title>Container Allowed Hosts and Ports</title> For
      security reasons, Docker application containers restrict access to hosts on the eth0 subnet.
      By default, only ports and hosts for built-in services and components (e.g. service instances
      bound to an application) are explicitly allowed. The following settings are available to allow
      or restrict access from the application containers: <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>fence docker/allowed_host_ports</dt>
          <dd>If applications need access to custom services on a specific port, but the IP address
            changes or is not known ahead of time, add the port to this list. For
            example:<codeblock>kato config push fence docker/allowed_host_ports 25</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>fence docker/allowed_subnet_ips</dt>
          <dd>If the specific IP address for the service is static and known, add the IP address
            with or without the port specification:
            <codeblock>kato config push fence docker/allowed_subnet_ips 10.0.0.54
            kato config push fence docker/allowed_subnet_ips 10.0.0.55:9001</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>fence docker/block_network_ips</dt>
          <dd>To explicitly block access to a specific IP address (internal or external):
            <codeblock>kato config push fence docker/block_network_ips 8.8.8.8</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>Restart the DEA role to apply these changes for new application containers. If
      applications which require access to these IP addresses have already been deployed, they will
      need to be restarted. <p>Two additional settings are exposed in <codeph>kato config</codeph>
        but should not generally be modified:</p><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>fence docker/exposed_container_ports</dt>
          <dd> Container ports to be accessed over the subnet (internal services)</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>fence docker/network_interface</dt>
          <dd>The Docker bridge interface.<b> Do not modify.</b></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>     
            </body>
</topic>
