<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic24073_2">	
    <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Windows Overview</title>
    <titlealts>
        <searchtitle>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Windows Overview</searchtitle>
    </titlealts>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <othermeta name="layout" content="default-devplatform"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Patrick F"/>

        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
<!--PUBLISH-->
<section id="introduction"><title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Windows Overview</title>

    <p><i>Windows, .NET, SQL Server, and IIS are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other 
        countries.</i></p>

<p>The Helion Development Platform includes a full end-to-end solution for creating and deploying
                .NET Framework applications. Windows developers can now leverage their knowledge and
                use the tools they are accustomed to in order to leverage the power of the Helion
                Development Platform. HTTP-based .NET applications that follow the <xref
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    href="http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/prepare-to-deploy.html"
                    >Cloud Foundry application model</xref> are a great fit for this feature
                support. </p>
<p>This document contains the following sections:
</p>
    <ul>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/overview" format="dita">Overview</xref> </li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/apps" format="dita">Supported .NET Application Types</xref> </li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/sql" format="dita">SQL Server Support</xref></li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/tools" format="dita">Windows Tools</xref></li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/process" format="dita">Process</xref></li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/softwarerequirements" format="dita">Software Requirements</xref></li>
        <li> <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/licensing" format="dita">Windows Instance Licensing</xref></li>
    </ul>
</section>
    <section id="overview"><title>Overview</title>


        <p>Helion Development Platform version 1.2 adds tools for creating instances of Windows
                Server 2012 R2 to an HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> environment, and
                Visual Studio components for deploying .NET HTTP-based applications to those server
                instances. Benefits of Windows/.NET support include:</p>
<ul>
<li> Organizations can run their .NET server applications in the same HPE Helion OpenStack
                    environment as their Linux applications.</li>
    <li> A consistent tooling experience for deploying Windows and Linux applications: The same 
        <xref href="windows_tools_guide.dita#windows_tools/helion" type="section">application deployment tools</xref> can be used for 
        both Windows and Linux deployments.</li>
    <li> Additional developer tools, including an SDK for programmatic access to services, and a 
        <xref href="windows_tools_guide.dita#windows_tools/cloudfoundryextensions">Visual Studio extension</xref> for 
        deploying and managing applications.</li>
    <li> Feature-rich application sandboxing, including memory and CPU management, and application isolation. This allows applications to coexist within a single 
        ALS cluster, saving the overhead of running 
        a separate operating system for each application.</li>
    <li> Support for creating Windows instances that include Microsoft SQL Server Express. </li>
    <li> Integrated buildpack support for building applications with dependencies and services.</li>
</ul>
        
        <p>Windows and .NET support is enabled by adding this functionality to an existing Helion Development Platform 1.2 installation.</p>

        <p>For the 1.2 release, we support creating the following types of instances:</p>
<ul>
    <li>Windows Server 2012 R2 with DEA (Droplet Execution Agent) role</li>
    <li>Windows Server 2012 R2 with SQL Server 2012 Express</li>
    <li>Windows Server 2012 R2 with SQL Server 2014 Express</li>
</ul>
        <p>Helion Development Platform treats deployment of .NET applications in the same way as
                Linux applications (such as Java or PHP appplications). .NET applications require a
                    buildpack to
                specify the dependencies and <xref href="windows_adding_services.dita#topic3869" type="section"  
                    >services</xref> that can be bound to the application. .NET applications are
                deployed into a sandbox environment similar to Warden in Cloud Foundry. </p>
        </section>
    <section id="apps"><title>Supported .NET Application Types</title>

        <p>Helion Development Platform supports HTTP-based applications, including ASP.NET and WCF. Design considerations for Windows DEA applications are the 
            same as for 
            <xref format="html" scope="external" href="http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/prepare-to-deploy.html">Cloud Foundry</xref> 
            applications.</p> 

        <p>Helion Development Platform also provides an integrated IIS buildpack which supports the following technologies:</p>
<ul>
    <li> IIS 8 </li>
    <li> .NET 2.0-4.5.2</li>
    <li> ASP.NET Web Forms</li>
    <li> ASP.NET WebAPI v1 and v2</li>
    <li> ASP.NET MVC 2 through 5 with Entity Framework 6</li>
    <li> ASP.NET SignalR</li>
    <li> WCF services</li>
</ul>
        </section>
    <section id="sql"><title>SQL Server Support</title>


        <p>The Helion Development Platform 1.2 supports SQL Server Express 2012 and SQL Server Express 2014. SQL Server support is enabled by creating a 
            SQL Server service using the SQL Server broker. 
            Each application that binds to the SQL Server service will create a new database and service credentials. The service credentials get created 
            and can be accessed either from the 
            <codeph>web.config</codeph> file, or programmatically through the <codeph>VCAP_SERVICES</codeph> environment variable.</p>
        </section>
    <section id="tools"><title>Windows Tools </title>

        <p>In order to run .NET framework applications, Helion Development Platform requires that Windows DEA nodes be deployed. The tools used to 
            create and deploy Windows DEA nodes, and to deploy 
            .NET Framework applications, include the following:</p>
        </section>
        <section id="tools_imaging"><title>Imaging tool</title>

            <ul><li> Glazier: This tool creates Windows images for deployment to HPE Helion OpenStack. This tool is
                    not needed for using Windows images in HPE Helion Public Cloud.</li></ul>
        </section>
        <section id="tools_management"><title>Management tool set</title>
<ul>
    <li>ALS Cluster management (<i>cf-mgmt</i>): This tool adds Windows DEAs and SQL Server services to your cluster.</li>
    <li>ALS Client (<i>helion</i>): This tool deploys .NET applications (run with the <codeph>--stack win2012r2</codeph> switch). The ALS client can 
        deploy Windows applications from Windows, Linux, or 
        MacOS X environments.</li>
</ul>
        </section>
    <section id="tools_net"><title>.NET tool set</title>

        <ul>
            <li>Cloud Foundry Extensions: This Visual Studio extension performs simple management tasks such as starting or stopping an application, 
                deleting a service, or renaming a route.</li>
            <li>Cloud Foundry MSBuild tasks: These MSBuild processes allow you to build and deploy .NET applications as part of the usual build process 
                for your application.</li>
            <li>Cloud Foundry .NET SDK: These libraries allow you to programmatically interact with the Cloud Foundry APIs.</li>
        </ul>

            <p>For more information about downloading and using these tools, see <xref
                    href="windows_tools_guide.dita">Windows and .NET Tools
                    Guide</xref>.</p>
        </section>
    <section id="process"><title>Process</title>
        <p>At a high level, running .NET applications in Helion Development Platform involves the following process:</p>
        </section>
    <section id="enablingwindows"><title>Enabling Windows (Installation)</title>
<ol>

    <li> Obtain a Windows 2012 R2 server license and ISO image.</li>
    <li> Download the <xref format="html" scope="external" href="http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/glazier-1.2.0-posix_x86_64.zip">Glazier</xref> tool.</li>
    <li> Use the Glazier tool to create and upload your Windows images.</li>
    <li> Add Windows DEAs to your cluster</li>
    <li> Add SQL Server services to your cluster.</li>
</ol>
        </section>
    <section id="development"><title>Application development and deployment</title>
<ol>

    <li> Download the <xref href="../helion/CLI/ALS_Client_Downloads.dita"> Helion client tool</xref>.</li>
    <li> Install the Cloud Foundry Explorer and Cloud Foundry MSBuild tasks in Visual Studio.</li>
    <li> Optionally, install the Cloud Foundry .NET SDK (for programmatic access to services.)</li>
    <li> Build your application.</li>
    <li> Deploy your application using either Visual Studio or the Helion client.</li>
</ol>
        </section>
    <section id="softwarerequirements"><title>Software Requirements</title>


        <p>Windows support has software requirements including the following:</p>
<ul>
    <li> A deployment of the HPE Helion Development Platform 1.2 or later or an HPE Helion Public
                    Cloud account. To try HPE Helion Public Cloud, see <xref format="html"
                        scope="external" href="http://www.hpcloud.com/cloud-credit">HPE Cloud
                        Signup</xref>. </li>
    <li> A licensed, retail, English-language Windows 2012 R2 ISO image. Evaluation versions and non-English versions are not supported. This image 
        can be obtained through a MSDN subscription for development 
        and test purposes, but images for use in a production environment must be obtained through the OEM channel. See 
        <xref type="section" href="#topic24073_2/licensing" format="dita">Windows Instance Licensing</xref> for details.</li>
    <li> Virtual Box version 4.3.26 or later: <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads">Download</xref></li>
    <li> Virtio drivers version 0.1-81: 
        <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://fedorapeople.org/groups/virt/virtio-win/deprecated-isos/stable/virtio-win-0.1-81.iso">Download</xref></li>
    <li> The Glazier tool: <xref format="html" scope="external" href="http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/glazier-1.2.0-posix_x86_64.zip">Download</xref></li>
    <li> If applications are to be deployed and managed from the development environment, any edition of Visual Studio 2013, including the Community (free) edition.</li>
    <li> The <xref href="windows_tools_guide.dita#windows_tools/cloudfoundryextensions">Cloud Foundry Explorer Visual Studio extension</xref>. This
                    extension can be found by searching for <b>Cloud Foundry Explorer</b> in the
                        <i>Extensions and Updates</i> module of Visual Studio.</li>
    <li>Helion OpenStack supports .NET applications created with .NET versions 2.0 through 4.5.2.</li>
</ul>
        </section>
    <section id="licensing"><title>Windows Instance Licensing</title>
        <p>You will need to provide your own Windows licensing for use with Windows instances; Microsoft's licensing requires customers to create their own images using their own 
            licensed software. During 
            image creation, temporary instances of Windows Server are created, so a volume license is required.</p> 

        <p>Windows Server licensing for Windows DEAs and Windows SQL Server instances consists of two components:</p>
<ul>
    <li> Licensing agreements. These are paid contracts with Microsoft, which include the legal
                    right to run a software package and support agreements. Since HPE Helion
                    OpenStack is a <xref format="html" scope="external"
                        href="http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/svvp.aspx">certified SSVP
                        provider</xref>, customers can use Microsoft support with their own
                    licensing agreements.</li> 
        <li>Activation. Your Windows instances can be activated by using your KVM server, or by connecting to the Windows instance directly using Remote Desktop, and providing 
            product keys manually.</li>
</ul>
        <p>For more information on licensing Windows Server, see 
            <xref format="html" scope="external" href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/licensing/product-licensing/windows-server-2012-r2.aspx">Windows Server 2012 Volume Licensing</xref>, 
            or contact your 
            Microsoft licensing representative.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>



