<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="swift_hos2.0">
    <title>HP Helion OpenStack Object Storage (Swift)</title>
      <body>
          <p> With this release, HP Helion OpenStack introduces a concept of input data model. Input
            model allows you to provide the input data based (<b>data like .....?)</b> on your
            choice of configuration.
            <!--This input models ensures that you are deploying HP Helion OpenStack based on your preferences and configurations. This makes the product more flexible to your usage. --></p>
        <p>
            Based on OpenStack® Object Sotrage, the HP Helion OpenStack® Object Storage service
            provides a highly available, resilient, and scalable storage pool for unstructured data.
            It is highly durable architecture with no single point of failure. 
        </p>
        <p><b>what all information does the user need to input? specific hardware required for
            swift.. any network configuration</b></p>
        <section>
            <b>What is Input model and how it works?</b>
        </section>
        <section>provide an example that a user need to provide as an input data.</section>
        <section><b>Architecture Overview</b><p>A Object Storage (Swift) cluster is Software Defined
            Storage (SDS) architecture, layered on top of industry standard servers, using
            native storage devices which are typically disk drives.</p><p>
                <b>Note</b>: It is not recommended to run Swift on top of other systems (hardware or
                software) that hide the failure domains or native storage devices like using RAID
                group on top of drives. (<b>does this hold good at the present
                    scenario?</b>)</p><p>The services in the Swift cluster are either <i>access</i>
                        services or <i>storage</i> services.</p><ul id="ul_tn1_pvs_ts">
                            <li>The <i>access</i> services group is made up of the Swift Proxy Servers, which
                                run Swift-Proxy, Account and Container Services, HTTP/HTTPS load balancers, and
                                OpenStack® Keystone authentication service.</li>
                            <li>The <i>storage</i> services group is composed of Swift Object Servers and
                                various background services such as replicators. <p>Each of the service group
                                    can scaled independently to meet workload and redundany requirements. The
                                    storage service can scaled up as necessary. It can also be horizontally
                                    scalable to handle an increased number of simultaneous connections as well
                                    as large number of objects.</p></li>
                        </ul><p>The following diagram depicts the architectural overview of the swift
                            deployment.</p><p><b>insert diagram</b>???</p></section>
        <section><b>Storage Policies</b></section>
      </body>
       </topic>
    
    
