<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581">
    <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Patching and Update
        Process</title>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
            <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
            <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <body>
        <p>This document provides a general description of the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
            patching and update processes.
            <!--https://wiki.hpcloud.net/pages/editpage.action?pageId=56139004--></p>
        <p>Instructions for deploying a specific patch or update are provided in README file that
            comes with the patch or update. Also, the <xref
                href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#CarrierGrade/carrier-grade-index.html" format="html"
                scope="external">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade documentation site</xref> will
            also have instructions for deploying patches and updates.</p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_i3c_rjv_c5">
                <li><xref
                        href="../../OperationsGuide/Upgrade/CGH-2-Update-Patch.dita#topic10581/patch"
                        >What is a patch?</xref></li>
                <li><xref
                        href="../../OperationsGuide/Upgrade/CGH-2-Update-Patch.dita#topic10581/update"
                        >What is an update</xref>?</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <section id="patch"><title><b>What is a patch?</b></title>A patch is minor hotfix that
            addresses a particular defect for a specific build.<p>A patch has following
                characteristics:</p><ul id="ul_mtc_hw5_c5">
                <li>Can update any file (such as: configuration, INI files, .sh files, and .yml
                    files) on the lifecycle manager (before the cloud is deployed) or cloud nodes
                    (after the cloud is deployed);</li>
                <li>Can update a particular package on existing cloud;</li>
                <li>Supports rollback;</li>
                <li>Is idempotent;</li>
                <li> Is sequential;</li>
                <li>Does not introduce new variables to what the configuration processor has already
                    generated (such as <codeph>group_vars</codeph>, and
                    <codeph>host_vars</codeph>).</li>
            </ul><p>A patch consists of two files: <codeph>metadata.tar.gz</codeph> and
                    <codeph>Readme</codeph>
            </p><p>
                <ul id="ul_pk4_qz5_c5">
                    <li><b>metadata.tar.gz</b> - contains Ansible roles in the following
                                hierarchy<p><b>Note:</b> Not all the sub-directories under the
                                <codeph>/roles/&lt;patch-name></codeph> directory are mandatory
                            except for the
                            following:<codeblock>roles/&lt;patch-name&gt;/tasks/apply.yml
roles/&lt;patch-name&gt;/tasks/rollback.yml
roles/&lt;patch-name>/defaults/main.yml (ok if empty)</codeblock></p></li>
                    <li>
                        <p><b>Readme</b> - contains pre-requisites, impacted files, instruction to
                            apply the patch</p>
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </p><p>Multiple patches can be bundled into a single script and all the patches can be
                applied or rolled-back using this script.</p><p><b>How to apply a
                patch</b></p><p>Each patch will contain a README file with full instructions on how
                to deploy that patch. Also, the <xref
                    href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#CarrierGrade/carrier-grade-index.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade documentation
                    site</xref> will also have instructions for deploying each patch.</p><p>In
                general, the process for applying a patch includes:</p><ul id="ul_ntc_hw5_c5">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Extracting</b>. You can download and extract patch files from the <xref
                            href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Home/Show"
                            format="html" scope="external">Helion Distribution Network (HDN)</xref>
                        to the lifecycle manager in the
                            <codeph>/var/hlm/clouds/&lt;cloud-name>/patches/</codeph> directory. The
                        patch files are usually named in the
                            <codeph>patches_&lt;buildbumber>.tar.gz</codeph> format. </p>
                    <p>The extracted patch files contain a subdirectory for each individual
                        patch.</p>
                </li>
                <li><b>Applying all patches</b> using following command:
                    <codeblock>cd /var/hlm/clouds/&lt;cloud-name>/patches/ &amp;&amp; ./hlm_applypatches.sh</codeblock></li>
            </ul><ul id="ul_ptc_hw5_c5">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Applying a specific patch </b>using following command:
                        <codeblock>hlm patch -c &lt;cloud-name&gt; -n  &lt;patch name&gt; -t &lt;tiers&gt;</codeblock></p>
                </li>
            </ul><ul id="ul_rtc_hw5_c5">
                <li><b>Rolling back a specific patch</b> using following
                    command<codeblock>hlm patch -c &lt;cloud-name&gt; -n  &lt;patch name&gt; -t &lt;tiers&gt; -r</codeblock></li>
            </ul><p><b><b>Using the lifecycle manager
            CLI</b></b></p><codeblock>hlm patch -c &lt;cloud name> -n  &lt;patch name> -t &lt;tiers>

root@cg-hlm:~/cg-hlm/hlm-build# hlm patch --help 
 
NAME         hlm-patch - Install a patch on cloud
SYNOPSIS     hlm patch -c &lt;cloud name> -n &lt;name> [-v &lt;verbose>] [-r &lt;rollback>] [-t &lt;tier>]

DESCRIPTION  Install a patch as an addon on an existing cloud. Requires a well formed         patch created in a format as expected by the patch framework

OPTIONS     --cloud, -c       Specify name of the cloud to act upon.

            --name, -n        Specify name of patch

            --verbose, -v     Produce verbose output. Example: hlm deploy -c &lt;cloudname> -v

            --rollback, -r    Indicate if you need to rollback existing patch.

            --tier, -t        Indicate tier to apply or rollback patch. Multiple tiers can be specified using colon (:) seperator.
                              E.g. -t BASE-CCP-T1:BASE:CCP-CPX</codeblock></section>  
        <section id="update"><title> Update </title><p>An update is a major hotfix or plugin which
                need to access variables not available in configuration processor variable
                repository (such as <codeph>group_vars</codeph> and
                <codeph>host_vars</codeph>).</p><p>An update has following characteristics:</p><ul
                id="ul_c5c_hw5_c5">
                <li>Introduces new variables not available in configuration processor repository
                    (group_vars, host_vars); </li>
                <li>Can update any file (such as: configuration, INI files, .sh files, and .yml
                    files) on the lifecycle manager (before the cloud is deployed) or cloud nodes
                    (after the cloud is deployed);</li>
                <li>Can update particular package on an existing cloud;</li>
                <li>Supports rollback;</li>
                <li>Is idempotent;</li>
                <li>Is independent of other updates.</li>
            </ul><p>A update contains three files:</p><ul id="ul_i5c_hw5_c5">
                <li><b>configure.json</b> - Defines variables specific to the environment. These are
                    typically variables required by the update but not available in the variable
                    repository (group_vars, host_vars) generated by configuration processor.</li>
                <li><b>metadata.tar.gz</b> - Contains Ansible roles, similar to that of a patch,
                    which update the lifecycle manager or the cloud nodes. The Ansible roles can
                    refer to <codeph>group_vars</codeph> and <codeph>host_vars</codeph> and any new
                    variables defined in <codeph>configure.json</codeph>.</li>
                <li><b>Readme</b> - contains pre-requisites, impacted files, and instructions for
                    applying the update.</li>
            </ul><p>Multiple updates cannot be bundled into a single script, because each update
                requires specific modifications in the <codeph>configure.json</codeph>
                    file.</p><p><b>How to apply an update</b></p><p>Each update will contain a
                README file with full instructions on how to deploy that update. Also, the <xref
                    href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#CarrierGrade/carrier-grade-index.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade documentation
                    site</xref> will also have instructions for deploying each update.</p><p>In
                general, the process for applying an update includes:</p><ul id="ul_d5c_hw5_c5">
                <li>
                    <p><b>Extracting</b>. You can download and extract patch files from the <xref
                            href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Home/Show"
                            format="html" scope="external">Helion Distribution Network (HDN)</xref>
                        to the lifecycle manager in
                            the<codeph>/var/hlm/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/updates/</codeph>
                        directory. The update files are usually named in the
                            <codeph>updates&lt;buildbumber>.tar.gz</codeph> format. The extracted
                        patch files contain a subdirectory for each individual update. </p>
                </li>
                <li><p><b>Applying an update</b> using following steps:</p><p>
                        <ul id="ul_e5c_hw5_c5">
                            <li><b>modify</b> the configuration file,
                                    <codeph>&lt;update-name>/configure.json</codeph>, as stated in
                                the README file included with the patch</li>
                            <li><b>apply </b>the update using following
                                command<codeblock>hlm update -c &lt;cloud name&gt; -n  &lt;update name&gt; -t &lt;tiers&gt;</codeblock>You
                                can specify multiple tiers using <codeph>-t
                                    &lt;tier1>:&lt;tier2></codeph>.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </p>For example:
                    <codeblock>hlm update -c mycloud -n NOV_HCG-890 -t BASE-CCP-T1:BASE-CPX-CCP</codeblock></li>
            </ul><ul id="ul_g5c_hw5_c5">
                <li><b>Rolling back an update</b> using following
                    command:<codeblock>hlm update -c &lt;cloud name&gt; -n  &lt;patch name&gt; -t &lt;tiers&gt; -r</codeblock></li>
            </ul>
            <b>Using the lifecycle manager CLI</b>
            <p>
                <codeblock>hlm update -c &lt;cloud name> -n &lt;name> [-v &lt;verbose>] [-r &lt;rollback>] [-t &lt;tier>]
  
DESCRIPTION
Install a update as an add-on on an existing cloud. Requires a well formed
update created in a format as expected by the update framework
 
OPTIONS      --cloud, -c
            Specify name of the cloud to act upon.
 
            --name, -n
            Specify name of update
     
            --verbose, -v
            Produce verbose output. Example: hlm deploy -c &lt;cloudname> -v
 
            --rollback, -r
            Indicate if you need to rollback existing update.
 
            --tier, -t
            Indicate tier to apply or rollback patch.</codeblock>
            </p></section>
            <section>
                <title>Update log</title>
                <p>An update log is maintained in <codeph>update.txt</codeph> in the
                    <codeph>/var/hlm/clouds/&lt;cloud-name>/updates/</codeph> directory .</p>
                <p>This file maintains updates applied and rolled-back to the environment and the
                    corresponding time-stamp.</p>
            </section>
    </body>
</topic>
