[See version 1.0 of this page](/)
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3434">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Buildpacks</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1buildpack.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/buildpack/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>
<xref href="https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpacks" scope="external" format="html" >Buildpacks</xref> are
bundles of detection and configuration scripts which set up containers
to run applications.</p>
<p>Application deployment is done primarily using buildpacks, and the syntax for specifying which buildpack to use has changed. Instead of using a BUILDPACK_URL environment variable, set the buildpack's Git URL in a  <b>buildpack</b>  key at the top level of <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
<p>Buildpacks are the recommended method for deploying applications to Application Lifecycle Service. Buildpacks replace the built-in frameworks used in previous versions.</p>
<section id="built-in-buildpacks"> <title>Built-In Buildpacks</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service will cycle through the <i>detect</i> scripts of the built-in buildpacks prior to staging to match the code you are pushing. For most applications using the built-in buildpacks, no additional ALS configuration is required.</p>
</section>
<section id="legacy-buildpack"> <title>Legacy Buildpack</title>
<p>The legacy buildpack is a special meta-buildpack for deploying applications configured for Cloud Foundry v1 without the need for extensive reconfiguration.</p>
<p>To use the Legacy buildpack: specify the <b>framework</b> type for your application (e.g. php,
play, rails3, sinatra, java_web, java_ee, etc.). You can optionally
set a specific <b>runtime</b> as well. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>name: bottle-py3
framework:
  type: python
  runtime: python32
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: When using the Legacy Buildpack, config-defined environment variable values can only be updated by re-pushing the application with new settings (see <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/reference/1.1known-issues.dita#known-issues-legacy-env" >Legacy Buildpack and Environment Variables</xref>).</p>
</section>
<section id="custom-buildpacks"> <title>Custom Buildpacks</title>
<p>To specify the exact buildpack to use for deploying your application,
set a top-level <codeph>buildpack:</codeph> key in <i>manifest.yml</i> to the URL of the buildpack's Git repository. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>name: myrubyapp
mem: 256MB
buildpack: https://github.com/ActiveState/stackato-buildpack-ruby.git
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>You can use a specific branch by specifying it at the end of the URL using the following format:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>buildpack: https://github.com/ActiveState/stackato-buildpack-ruby.git#branchname
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>There are hundreds of buildpacks available on Github. Searching Github for the term "buildpack" and the name of the language or framework you wish to deploy may provide you with a working solution, or at least the starting point for your own custom buildpack.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>:  Not all Heroku buildpacks work with ALS due to environmental differences such as relying on the presence of certain executables or libraries in Heroku-specific locations. Examine and test any buildpack carefully before using it in production deployments.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Using <i>config_vars</i> in a buildpack's <i>bin/release</i> to set environment variables has been deprecated. Use a shell script in <i>$HOME/.profile.d</i> instead.</p>
</section>
<section id="procfile"> <title>Procfile</title>
<p>Buildpacks will usually contain a <b>default_process_type</b> setting with the command used to start the application process. If your application needs a custom command to start the process, create a Procfile in the base directory of your application.</p>
<p>The Procfile should contain a single line defining the <b>web:</b> <b>
<i>process</i>
</b> for the application defined. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>web: bundle exec rails server -p $PORT
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>ALS does not support multiple process types in the Procfile. To launch a <i>worker</i> process, create a separate app with an empty URL ( <b>url: [ ]</b> ) in <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
