<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic18711">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: General Deployment</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/--></p>
<p>
  <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.0index.dita" >See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page</xref>
</p>
<p>Applications are typically deployed to Application Lifecycle Service by pushing source code and configuration to the system's API endpoint using the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/client/1.1index.dita#client" >
<i>cf-mgmt</i> cluster management tool</xref> or other clients that use the Application Lifecycle Service or Cloud Foundry API.</p>
<p>The steps for deploying applications will be slightly different
depending on the application and its requirements. To examine and deploy actual applications, see the samples at <xref href="../../../../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita#sample" >Resources for Application Developers</xref>.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Application deployment is done primarily using <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1buildpack.dita" >Buildpacks</xref>. A special built-in 'Legacy' buildpack handles Cloud Foundry V1 frameworks for existing application configurations.</p>
<section id="targeting-authenticating"> <title>Targeting &amp; Authenticating</title>
<p>Before deploying an app, the client must first <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-getting-started.dita#command-target" >target</xref> Application Lifecycle Service's API endpoint URL. This will generally be the same URL that exposes the Management Console. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.example.com
Successfully targeted to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
...
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-getting-started.dita#command-login" >helion login</xref> command to authenticate with your username and password:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion login &lt;username&gt;
Attempting login to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
Password: ******
Successfully logged into [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="managing-multiple-targets"> <title>Managing Multiple Targets</title>
<p>The Application Lifecycle Service client targets a single location with the command <codeph>helion target</codeph>.</p>
<p>If you need to target two or more instances at the same time, use one of the following methods:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Use the <codeph>--target &lt;target&gt;</codeph> option. This sets
the specified target for the current command only, and does not set
it as the default:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>helion apps --target api.helion-xxx1.local
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use two or more terminals to access multiple targets. Within each terminal, set the <codeph>HELION_TARGET</codeph> environment variable for the API endpoint URL you want to work with in that terminal. The client will use this URL, overriding any target set with the <codeph>helion target</codeph> command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>export HELION_TARGET='api.helion-xxx2.local'
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>This target is used until the variable is unset or the terminal is closed. To unset it:</p>

<p>unset HELION_TARGET</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="selecting-org-space"> <title>Selecting Org &amp; Space</title>
<p>If your account is a member of multiple <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" >organizations</xref>, choose which one you
want to operate under:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion switch-org exampleco
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Likewise, if you are a member of more than one space, choose a default
space:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion switch-space devel-example
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="pushing-application-code"> <title>Pushing Application Code</title>
<p>Change to the root directory of your source code project, and use the <codeph>helion push</codeph> command to deploy your application. If you have a <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref> config file in this directory, you can use just:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion push -n
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The "-n" option is an alias for "--no-prompt", which takes options from
the config YAML file instead of prompting for them.</p>
<p>The output of the push command will be something like:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion push -n
Using manifest file "manifest.yml"
Application Url: env.example.hphelion.com
Creating Application [env] as [https://api.example.hphelion.com -&gt; exampleco -&gt; devel-example -&gt; env] ... OK
  Map env.stacka.to ... OK
Uploading Application [env] ...
  Checking for bad links ... 80 OK
  Copying to temp space ... 79 OK
  Checking for available resources ...  OK
  Processing resources ... OK
  Packing application ... OK
  Uploading (223K) ... 100% OK
Push Status: OK
...
helion.dea_ng: [STAGED_APP] Completed staging application
helion.dea_ng.0: [SPAWNING_APP] Spawning app web process: node server.js
app.0: Server running at
app.0:   =&gt; http://0.0.0.0:50932/
app.0: CTRL + C to shutdown
OK
http://env.heli.on/ deployed
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The client will show staging and running logs for the deployment process. To inspect these logs after deployment has finished, use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-information.dita#command-logs" >helion logs</xref> command.</p>
</section>
<section id="language-specific-deployment"> <title>Language-Specific Deployment</title>
<p>See each of these sections for language-specific deployment details. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
(*) Deployable small <xref href="../../../../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita#sample" >sample applications</xref> are available for some languages.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1java.dita" >Java</xref> (*)</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1node.dita" >Node</xref> (*)</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1php.dita" >PHP</xref> (*)</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1ruby.dita" >Ruby</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/python/1.1index.dita" >Python</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/perl/1.1index.dita" >Perl</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1clojure.dita" >Clojure</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1go.dita" >Go</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="configuring-your-application-for-helion"> <title>Configuring Your Application For Application Lifecycle Service</title>
<p>Most applications should be able to run under Application Lifecycle Service with only a few
changes.</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>manifest.yml</b>
</dt>
<dd>A <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita#manifest-yml" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref> file should be added to the root of your application to hold installation details as well as setup configuration instructions for your app.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
<p>
<b>Data Services</b>
If you want to use Application Lifecycle Service's data services, your code will need to use the connection details provided by special environment variables
    (e.g. DATABASE_URL). The code should generally check for the
    existence of these environment variables, use them if they exist,
    and otherwise fall back to some default setting.</p>
<p>See the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/services/1.1data-services.dita#data-services" >
<i>Data Services</i>
</xref> section for further details.</p>
<p>
<b>Environment Variables</b>
A number of special environment variables are available during
    staging and runtime. These can be used in
    <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita#hooks" >
<i>hooks</i>
</xref> or application code
    (for setting up databases, filesystem services, web server options,
    and cron jobs) in places where you would normally use hard-coded
    paths, credentials, or host-specific values.</p>
<p>See the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1environment.dita#environment-variables" >
<i>Environment
    Variables</i>
</xref>
    section for a complete list.</p>
</section>
<section id="helion-push"> <title>Application Lifecycle Service push</title>
<p>The <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-push" >helion push</xref> command
creates (or updates) applications on Application Lifecycle Service. It negotiates with the
API endpoint to reserve application URLs, allocate application
instances, provision data services, upload application code, and
optionally stage and start the application.</p>
<p>The command will prompt for options or use those specified in a <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita#manifest-yml" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref> file.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: The application name must be a valid <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hostname#Restrictions_on_valid_host_names" scope="external" format="html" >hostname label</xref> meaning that it contains only alphanumeric characters and hyphens.</p>
<p>The <codeph>push</codeph> command implicitly stages and starts the application unless the <codeph>--no-start</codeph> option is used. With this option, applications are pushed in a pre-staged, stopped state where variables can be added (e.g. for use in staging hooks). The application can then be staged and started with the  <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-start" >helion start</xref> command or the Start button in the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.1customize.dita#user-console-welcome" >Management Console</xref>.</p>
<p>The client will display staging logs while pushing the application but
will generally exit before any application logs are visible. To view the
application logs, use the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-information.dita#command-logs" >helion logs</xref> command.</p>
</section>
<section id="allowed-file-types"> <title>Allowed File Types</title>
<p>During the push process, Application Lifecycle Service includes only three file types:</p>
<ol>
<li>Files</li>
<li>Folders</li>
<li>Links</li>
</ol>
<p>All other special file types are ignored.</p>
</section>
<section id="naming-and-urls"> <title>Naming and URLs</title>
<p>To prevent confusion or collisions, Application Lifecycle Service enforces uniqueness for
URLs, application names, and service names:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>URLs</b> (auto-generated or <xref type="section" href="#topic18711/mapping-app-urls">manually mapped</xref>
must be globally unique, and are allocated on a "first come, first
serve" basis.</li>
<li>
<b>Application names</b> must be unique within the scope of the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" >
<i>space</i>
</xref>. Applications deployed in
different spaces can have the same name, but the full application
URL must be globally unique URL.</li>
<li>
<b>Service names</b> must be unique within the scope of the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" >
<i>space</i>
</xref>. The name given to a service
during creation is a pointer to a globally unique string (i.e. the
<i>actual</i> database name in the system as shown by
VCAP_SERVICES), so there is no possibility of naming conflicts
with services created in other orgs and spaces.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="url-assignment"> <title>URL Assignment</title>
<p>The ALS client assigns URLs for applications as follows during <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-push" >helion push</xref>.</p>
<ol>
<li>URLs set with the <codeph>--url</codeph> option take precedence.</li>
<li>If no URLs are set with <codeph>--url</codeph> option, URLs specified in the <i>manifest.yml</i> file are used.</li>
<li>If neither of the above are set, a default URL is generated and assigned using the "target-base" domain of the system or the domain of the Organization (if it has only one domain).</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="availability-placement-zones"> <title>Availability &amp; Placement Zones</title>
<p>There are two mechanisms for allocating application instances on particular Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) nodes or groups of nodes:</p>
</section>
<section id="availability-zones"> <title>Availability Zones</title>
<p>Availability zones are cluster configuration options that help distribute instances of an application across different physical locations, network segments, or racks. This is done to provide high availability in the event of server or network problems.</p>
<p>These zones are configured by administrators and take effect automatically when multiple app instances are requested. There are no user-facing options.</p>
</section>
<section id="placement-zones"> <title>Placement Zones</title>
<p>Placement zones are groups of DEA nodes which allow for segregation of application instances into different parts of a cluster, possibly with different physical hardware characteristics or network policies.</p>
<p>DEA nodes are tagged by a administrator with a placement zone name. Users pushing applications can specify which placement zone the application instances are run on by using the <i>--placement-zone</i> option for the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-push" >helion push</xref>, or by changing the Placement Zone in the application's Settings view in the Management Console.</p>
<p>The other relevant  client commands are:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-placement.dita#command-placement-zone" >helion placement-zone</xref>: Show the list of DEAs associated with the specified placement zone.</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-placement.dita#command-placement-zones" >helion placement-zones</xref>: Show the available placement zones.</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-placement.dita#command-set-placement-zone" >helion set-placement-zone</xref>: Associate the application with a specific placement zone.</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-placement.dita#command-unset-placement-zone" >helion unset-placement-zone</xref>: Remove the association between an application and its current placement zone.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="application-containers"> <title>Application Containers</title>
<p>ALS stages and runs applications within Linux containers on one or more "DEA" (Droplet Execution Agent) hosts. These containers (managed by Docker) are all copies of a single base image which are modified during staging to add application dependencies.</p>
<p>To inspect this base image to determine what software is pre-installed, or otherwise experiment with the application container, <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/null" scope="external" format="html" >deploy the Null application</xref>.</p>
<p>Once the app has been deployed, use the client to open an SSH session to the container:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>stackato ssh -a null
null:~$
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>From within the SSH session, you can run standard Linux commands. For example, to list the installed packages:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>null:~$ dpkg -l
...
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="crontab-support"> <title>Crontab Support</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Cron commands are only executed on instance #0 of the app.</p>
<p>Cron commands can be provided either in a regular crontab file in the
root directory of the app, or via the <codeph>cron:</codeph>
section in <i>manifest.yml</i> (See <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita" >
<i>manifest.yml options</i>
</xref>.</p>
<p>The <codeph>HOME</codeph> and <codeph>PATH</codeph>
environment variables, as well as all variables that start with
<codeph>PERL</codeph>, <codeph>PYTHON</codeph>,
<codeph>VCAP</codeph>,
<codeph>BUNDLE</codeph>, <codeph>LEIN</codeph>,
<codeph>GEM</codeph>, <codeph>RACK</codeph>, <codeph>RAILS</codeph>, <codeph>RUBY</codeph> or <codeph>http</codeph>
are exported to the top of the crontab file. When applicable, the
following database related environment variables are also added:
<codeph>DATABASE_URL</codeph>, <codeph>MYSQL_URL</codeph>,
<codeph>POSTGRESQL_URL</codeph>, <codeph>REDIS_URL</codeph>,
<codeph>MONGODB_URL</codeph>, and <codeph>RABBITMQ_URL</codeph>.</p>
<p>This happens after the <codeph>pre-running</codeph> hook has
executed, so any changes made by those commands will be included in the
crontab file.</p>
<p>After setting up environment variables, we copy the <i>\$HOME/crontab</i>
file, and finally the commands from the <codeph>cron:</codeph>
section in <i>manifest.yml</i>. The resulting file is stored at
<i>\$HELION_APP_ROOT/crontab</i>.</p>
</section>
<section id="whitespace-newlines-in-environment-variables"> <title>Whitespace &amp; Newlines in Environment Variables</title>
<p>To prevent breakage in cron, embedded newlines ("\n") in environment
variable values will be replaced with "\\n" when generating the
crontab. Any leading and trailing spaces in environment variable values
are also stripped.</p>
</section>
<section id="mapping-app-urls"> <title>Mapping App URLs</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service automatically assigns to each application a URL made up of the
application's name and the base URL for the system. An application named
"myblog" deployed to an Application Lifecycle Service system at "api.example.com" would be given
the URL "myblog.example.com".</p>
<p>In addition to this default URL, additional URLs can be set for an
application using the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-map" >helion map</xref>. The application
will respond to requests on the mapped URL, provided a DNS record has
been set up resolving to Application Lifecycle Service's external IP or hostname.</p>
<p>For example, to map a URL to an existing application on Application Lifecycle Service:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion apps

+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+
| Application  | # | Health | URLS                             | Services   |
+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+
| myapp        | 1 | 100%   | myapp.example.com                  |            |
+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+

helion map myapp example.com

+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+
| Application  | # | Health | URLS                             | Services   |
+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+
| myapp        | 1 | 100%   | myapp.example.com                  |            |
|              |   |        | example.com                     |            |
+--------------+---+--------+----------------------------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>If DNS is configured correctly, requests to "example.com" will resolve
transparently to "myapp.example.com".</p>
<p>
  <b>Note</b>
</p>
<p>Application URLs are allocated on a "first come, first serve" basis, and
are reserved for the user who created the URL.</p>
<p>URLs can be mapped to multiple applications owned by the same user,
which can be useful for A/B testing. Application Lifecycle Service routes requests to the
mapped URL randomly between all available app instances.</p>
<p>Using the 'myapp.example.com' example above, you could push 'myapp-v2'
(e.g. a more recent revision) then map 'example.com' to that app as
well. You can access the specific versions directly using
'myapp.example.com' and 'myapp-v2.example.com', and use 'example.com' to
round robin between available instances of both versions:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>+-------------+---+---------+--------------------+-------------+
| Application | # | Health  | URLS               | Services    |
+-------------+---+---------+--------------------+-------------+
| myapp       | 5 | RUNNING | myapp.example.com    |             |
|             |   |         | example.com       |             |
| myapp-v2    | 1 | RUNNING | myapp-v2.example.com |             |
|             |   |         | example.com       |             |
+-------------+---+---------+--------------------+-------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>As you gain confidence with the new revision, you can increase the
number of instances of 'myapp-v2' (i.e. phasing that version into
production rather than cutting over) and eventually <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-unmap" >unmap</xref> 'example.com' from the original 'myapp'.</p>
</section>
<section id="best-practices"> <title>Best Practices</title>
</section>
<section id="reducing-downtime-during-app-updates"> <title>Reducing downtime during app updates</title>
<p>Updating an app can create downtime while the new code is being staged.
URL mapping can be used to reduce this downtime by switching between two
running versions of an app.</p>
<p>For example, we have an application called "customertracker". The pushed
application name will include a version or build number, but it is
mapped to a "production" URL as well:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion apps

+--------------------+---+---------+--------------------------------+------------+
| Application        | # | Health  | URLS                           | Services   |
+--------------------+---+---------+--------------------------------+------------+
| customertracker-v1 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v1.example.com | customerdb |
|                    |   |         | customertracker.example.com    |            |
+--------------------+---+---------+--------------------------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Push the updated code with a new application name:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion push --as customertracker-v2

...

helion apps

+--------------------+---+---------+---------------------------------+------------+
| Application        | # | Health  | URLS                            | Services   |
+--------------------+---+---------+---------------------------------+------------+
| customertracker-v1 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v1.example.com  | customerdb |
|                    |   |         | customertracker.example.com     |            |
| customertracker-v2 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v2.example.com  | customerdb |
+--------------------+---+---------+---------------------------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <b>Note</b>
</p>
<p>In this example, the configured service has the same name, so it is
bound to both versions of the application. This will only work if there
are no database schema changes or differences in the filesystem layout
on a persistent filesystem service. If there are such differences, use
distinct data services for the new version.</p>
<p>Map the "production" URL to the new app:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion map customertracker-v2 customertracker.example.com

helion apps

+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
| Application        | # | Health  | URLS                         | Services   |
+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
| customertracker-v1 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v1.stacka.to | customerdb |
|                    |   |         | customertracker.example.com  |            |
| customertracker-v2 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v2.stacka.to | customerdb |
|                    |   |         | customertracker.example.com  |            |
+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>While both versions of the application are live and mapped to the same
production URL, the router will round-robin web requests to this URL
between both versions.</p>
<p>Next, <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-management.dita#command-unmap" >unmap</xref> the production URL from the first app:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion unmap customertracker-v1 customertracker.example.com
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The old version is still available in case it's needed for rollback. If
everything works as expected with the newer code, delete the old app:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion delete customertracker-v1

helion apps

+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
| Application        | # | Health  | URLS                         | Services   |
+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
| customertracker-v2 | 1 | RUNNING | customertracker-v2.stacka.to | customerdb |
|                    |   |         | customertracker.example.com  |            |
+--------------------+---+---------+------------------------------+------------+
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="persistent-sessions"> <title>Persistent Sessions</title>
<p>With multi-instance applications on Application Lifecycle Service, the Router will distribute
requests among all instances. Without session management, the end user
could access different application instances with each HTTP request
instead of connecting to the same instance that started their session. Application Lifecycle Service's default router does no special handling of
<codeph>JSESSIONID</codeph> or <codeph>SESSIONID</codeph>
cookies.</p>
<p>Cloud-enabled applications should use a shared database (e.g. Redis),
cache (e.g. Memcached), or filesystem as a back end for session
management. Some examples of this approach are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Java:

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-6.0-doc/config/manager" scope="external" format="html" >Tomcat session
manager</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://code.google.com/p/memcached-session-manager/" scope="external" format="html" >memcached-session-manager</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://github.com/jcoleman/tomcat-redis-session-manager" scope="external" format="html" >tomcat-redis-session-manager</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Node.js:

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://github.com/balor/connect-memcached#connect-memcached" scope="external" format="html" >connect-memcached</xref>, a session store that uses Memcached</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>PHP:

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/languages/1.1php.dita#php-persistent-sessions-filesystem" >Persistent Sessions</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://php.net/manual/en/memcached.sessions.php" scope="external" format="html" >Memcached session support</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Python: 

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/sessions/" scope="external" format="html" >Django "How to use
sessions"</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
