---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/other-frameworks/
product: devplatform
title: "Generic & Standalone Frameworks"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion  1.1 Development Platform: Generic & Standalone Frameworks[](#generic-standalone-frameworks "Permalink to this headline")
===============================================================================================

The Generic and Standalone frameworks are for applications that might
not fit any of the other frameworks available in Application Lifecycle Service.

-   **Generic** is for web applications.
-   **Standalone** is for background applications without an HTTP
    interface.

These two frameworks make no assumptions about the application type and
can be customized to run a wide variety of non-standard applications.

Any language [*runtime*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#runtime)
available on the server can be specified in the config file. If a
runtime is not specified, Python 2.7 is made available by default.

Generic[](#generic "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------

The Generic framework requires a custom [*processes:
web:*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#processes) setting in
*manifest.yml* specifying a command to start the web process (e.g. a
custom web server).

The example below shows a web process that serves static files from the
application directory using Python's
[SimpleHTTPServer](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/server/):

    framework:
        type: generic
    processes:
        web: python -m SimpleHTTPServer $PORT

If you wish to run an application *without* a web interface (i.e. a
background "worker" process), [*set 'processes: web:' to
Null*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#processes-web-null) or use the
Standalone framework instead.

Standalone[](#standalone "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------

The Standalone framework uses a custom command specified in the
[*command:*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#command) key to start a
background worker process.

The example below shows *manifest.yml* configuration for an application
running a simple Python worker script.

    name: worker
    framework:
      type: standalone
      runtime: python27
    command: python main.py

The `command` must start a long-running child
process. If this process exits for any reason, the Health Manager will
restart the application instance.

Application Lifecycle Service will not assign URLs to apps deployed with the standalone
framework, as it is intended for background worker processes. The
`helion` client includes a heuristic that will
automatically suppress URL mapping for applications using this
framework.

**Note**

If the application does not serve web requests, it may appear in the
Management Console or `helion apps` command as not
running. To verify a non-web application is actually running, use
`helion logs` or `helion ssh`.

See the
[helion-worker](https://github.com/helion-apps/helion-worker/tree/master)
sample for a simple working example.
