<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2358">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Performing a System Data Backup</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Backup/carrier-grade-admin-wr-backup.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/backup/--></p>
<p>A system data backup captures core system information needed to restore a fully operational HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade cluster.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>System data backups include:
* platform configuration details
* system databases
* patching and package repositories
* home directory for the wrsroot user and all LDAP user accounts.</p>
<p>System data backups do not include:</p>
<ul>
<li>Modifications manually made to the file systems, such as configuration changes on the /etc directory. After a restore operation has been completed, these modification have to be reapplied.</li>
<li>Home directories and passwords of local user accounts. They must be backed up manually by the system administrator.</li>
<li>The /root directory. Use the wrsroot account instead when root access is needed.</li>
</ul>
<p>To perform a system backup:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in as user wrsroot to the active controller.</p>

<p>You can log in directly on the console or remotely using ssh.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use the following command to execute the system backup.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo config_controller --backup &lt;name&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>Where &lt;name&gt; is an arbitrary identifier to use for the backup</p>

<p>Upon successful execution of the command, the following two files are available on the controller's file system:</p>

<ul>
<li>/opt/backups/backup_20140918_system.tgz</li>
<li>/opt/backups/backup_20140918_images.tgz</li>
</ul>
<p>Together, these two files represent the entire system data.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Transfer the backup files to an external storage resource.</p>

<p>You can use a command such as scp to transfer the backup files to a server reachable over the OAM network.</p>

<p>You can also copy them to a locally attached storage device, such as an external USB drive.</p>

<ol>
<li>Optional: Delete the backup files.</li>
</ol>
<p>You may want to free up disk space on the controller to accommodate upcoming Cinder volume backups.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The system data backup is now complete. The backup files must be kept in a secured location, probably holding multiple copies of them for redundancy purposes.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2358/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
