<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4189">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating or Deleting Networks</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/network/create/--></p>
<p>A network is a pluggable, scalable and API-driven system for managing networks and IP addresses.</p>
<p>A non-admin user or admin user can <xref type="section" href="#topic4189/createnet">create</xref> and <xref type="section" href="#topic4189/deletenet">delete</xref> networks as needed.</p>
<section id="createnet"> <title>Create a network</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Networks</b> link.</p>

<p>The network(s) for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Network</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Network</b> tab:</p>

<ul>
<li>Enter a name for the network.</li>
<li>Leave <b>Admin State</b> selected to launch the network in the enabled state or clear the field to disable the new network.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Next</b> to configure a subnet for the network.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Subnet</b> tab:</p>

<ul>
<li>Enter the subnet name.</li>
<li>Enter a network address range for the subnet in CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) format in the <b>Network Address</b> field, for example: 192.168.0.0/24.</li>
<li>Select IPv4 or IPv6, as appropriate, in the IP Version field.</li>
<li>Enter a gateway IP address from the subnet or leave the <b>Gateway IP</b> field blank to use the default value for the gateway IP address; for example, 192.168.0.1 for 192.168.0.0/24.</li>
<li>Leave <b>Disable Gateway</b> clear to enable the default gateway for this network, or select <b>Disable Gateway</b> to create the network with no default gateway.</li>
<li>
<p>Determine if the network is to be available in all projects in the domain or only the selected project:</p>

<ul>
<li>Select <b>Shared</b> to make the network available in all projects.</li>
<li>Leave the <b>Shared</b> option clear to limit the network to the selected project. </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Determine if the network is to be available externally or only internally:</p>

<ul>
<li>Select <b>External Network</b> to make the network an externally accessible.</li>
<li>Leave the <b>External Network</b> option clear to make the network internal, only accessible from the external network through a network router. </li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Next</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Subnet Details tab:</p>

<ul>
<li>Clear the <b>Enable DHCP</b> option, as needed, to not use the network as a DCHP. DHCP is enabled by default. If enabled, the subnet will serve as your DHCP server. Instances associated with the subnet will be assigned an IP address from this pool. .</li>
<li>Optionally, enter the starting and ending IP addresses you want for your DHCP allocation pool in the <b>Allocation Pools</b> field, in the format IP<i>ADDR,IP</i>ADDR. For example: 192.168.1.10,192.168.1.120. By deafult, the server has an application pool starting with 10.0.0.0/24.</li>
<li>Optionally, enter the IP Address of your subnet in the <b>DNS Name Servers</b> field. If blank, your subnet will default to using HP's internal DNS which uses DNSMASQ.</li>
<li>Optionally, enter the Destination CIDR and Next Hop for your subnet in the Host Routes field to create host routes.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deletenet"> <title>Delete a network</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Networks</b> link.</p>

<p>The network(s) for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the network to delete, click <b>More &gt; Delete Network</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Network</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The network is deleted and any instances attached to the networks are disconnected.</p>

<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4189"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>

</section>
<section id="cli"> <title>Create a network using the CLI</title>
<p>You can use CLI commands to add router interfaces. First, become the appropriate admin user:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>source etc/nova/openrc
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Then use the neutron router-interface-add command to add interfaces.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>neutron router-interface-add router_id subnet-id

where `router_id` is the name or UUID of the router, and `subnet_id` is the name or UUID of the subnet to which you want to attach an interface. By default, the interface is assigned the gateway address on the subnet.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To add an interface to an external network:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>neutron router-gateway-set router_id externalnet-id

where `router_id` is the name or UUID of the router, and `externalnet_id` is the name or UUID of a tenant network configured to provide external connections.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4189"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
