<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2171">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating a Segmentation Range</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.segment.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/network/segment/--></p>
<p>The admin user must create segmentation ranges on existing provider networks of the vlan type in order to support tenant networks.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This task assumes that provider networks have already been created to unlock the compute nodes and make the system operational. For more information, see <xref href="../Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.provider.dita" >Creating and Deleting Provider Networks</xref>.</p>
<p>Segmentation ranges are sets of contiguous identifiers defined on a provider network. Each ID is used to implement a tenant network.</p>
<p>Depending on how a segmentation range is configured, its ID can be available to all tenants (shared), or designated for use by a particular tenant. When a tenant or admin creates a new tenant network, it is assigned an ID automatically from the available ranges on available provider networks.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Networks</b> link.</p>

<p>The network(s) for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the <b>Provider Networks</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the name of the provider network where you want to create a segmentation range.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Provider Network Overview</b> page, click <b>Create Range</b> to open the Create Segmentation Range page.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Complete the form as required.</p>

<ul>
<li>
<b>Name</b> -  Enter the name of the segmentation range.</li>
<li>
<b>Description</b> -  Enter a free-text field for reference.</li>
<li>
<b>Shared</b> -  If selected, shares the range for use by all tenants. </li>
<li>
<b>Project</b> -  Select the tenant associated with the segmentation range.</li>
<li>
<b>Minimum</b> Enter the lowest value of a range of IDs.</li>
<li>
<b>Maximum</b> Enter the highest value of a range of IDs.</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> The range must not overlap other segmentation ranges on the same provider network.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Segmentation Range</b> to commit the changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2171"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
