<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1299">
<title>HPE Helion Public Cloud CDN</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./publiccloud/cdn.md-->
 <!--permalink: /publiccloud/cdn/--></p>
<!-- <iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/40264189?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" width="580" height="420" frameborder="0"> </iframe> -->
<p>Using the HPE Helion Public Cloud Content Delivery Network (CDN) service, content inside <xref href="../publiccloud/object-storage.dita" >HPE Helion Public Cloud Object Storage</xref> can easily be cached on servers in metropolitan areas all over the world to speed client access to them by removing much of the network latency.  Once a container created with Object Storage has been enabled with the CDN service, all objects within that container are automatically distributed to servers on the worldwide Content Delivery Network.</p>
<p>For a step-by-step guide to enable CDN on the <xref href="https://horizon.hpcloud.com" scope="external" format="html" >HPE Helion Public Cloud Console</xref>, take a look at the <xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/knowledge-base" scope="external" format="html" >Knowledge Base</xref> article <xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/article/activating-cdn-your-object-storage" scope="external" format="html" >Activating CDN for your Object Storage</xref>.</p>
<p>If you have any questions, try our <xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com" scope="external" format="html" >Forums</xref> where you can learn from our own internal experts as well as other users in the HPE Helion Public Cloud community.</p>
<section id="api"> <title>API</title>
<p>Do you need low level, raw REST API access to HPE Helion Public Cloud CDN?  Head on over to the <xref href="../publiccloud/api/cdn-api.dita" >CDN API page</xref> for details, including a video showing usage of the API using cURL.</p>
</section>
<section id="bindings"> <title>Bindings</title>
<p>Got a favorite programming language?  Ready to create your own CDN-based applications?  Take a look at our <xref href="../publiccloud/bindings.dita" >Bindings section</xref> for details.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
