<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3134">
<title>HPE Helion Public Cloud CLI Software for Windows PowerShell: Getting Help</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
<!--./publiccloud/cli.windows.2.help.md-->
<!--permalink: /publiccloud/cli/windows/help/-->
<p>After module registration is complete you can view a list of available cmdlets and get detailed examples of their usage with a few commands.</p>
<codeblock>
PS HPCS:\\&gt; get-command -module CLIManifest

CommandType     Name                                               ModuleName
-----------     ----                                               ----------
Cmdlet          Add-Rule                                           CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Assign-IP                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Attach-Volume                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Backup-Volume                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Connect-Server                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Copy-Id                                            CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Copy-Item                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Detach-Volume                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Catalog                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-CDN                                            CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Config                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Limits                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Metadata                                       CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Notes                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Password                                       CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-URI                                            CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Version                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Zone                                           CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Get-Zones                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Migrate-Drive                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-CDN                                            CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Container                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-FloatingIP                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Image                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-KeyPair                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Network                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Port                                           CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Router                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-RouterInterface                                CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-SecurityGroup                                  CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Server                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Snapshot                                       CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Subnet                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          New-Volume                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Ping-Server                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Reboot-Server                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Refresh-Cache                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-CDN                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Container                                   CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-FloatingIP                                  CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Item                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-KeyPair                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Metadata                                    CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Network                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Port                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Router                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-RouterInterface                             CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Rule                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-SecurityGroup                               CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Server                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Snapshot                                    CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Subnet                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Remove-Volume                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Reset-Password                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-Config                                         CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-Credentials                                    CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-Metadata                                       CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-Scope                                          CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-Zone                                           CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Set-ZoneColor                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          UnAssign-IP                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-FloatingIP                                  CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-Network                                     CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-Port                                        CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-Router                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-Server                                      CLIManifest
Cmdlet          Update-Subnet                                      CLIManifest
</codeblock>

<p>Here we have a list of every Powershell Cmdlet exposed from the CLIManifest module that we previously registered.  For additional help on a specific command listed try the following.</p>
<codeblock>
PS HPCS:\\&gt; Get-Help Get-Metadata -detailed

NAME
Get-Metadata

SYNOPSIS
This Cmdlet will list out the Metadata entries assigned to the supplied resource. You can currently list metadata assigned to Servers, Storage Objects , Containers and CDN Containers.

SYNTAX
[&lt;CommonParameters&gt;]
    
    DESCRIPTION
    Many resources can have zero to many custom meta-data entries assigned to them. This is essentially a list of Key Value Pairs attached to the resource that you may use for whatever you would like.

    PARAMETERS
    -sp &lt;string&gt;
        The path to the remote Storage Object. Paths may be expressed as fully qualified or relative to the current location in the store.
        
    -cn &lt;string&gt;
        The Container Name.
            
    -cdn &lt;string&gt;
        The CDN Container Name.
                
    -sid &lt;string&gt;
        The Server ID.
                    
     &lt;CommonParameters&gt;
             This cmdlet supports the common parameters: Verbose, Debug,
             ErrorAction, ErrorVariable, WarningAction, WarningVariable,
             OutBuffer, PipelineVariable, and OutVariable. For more information, see
             about_CommonParameters (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).
                        
    EXAMPLE 1
                        
    PS yourContainer:\&gt;# Get-metadata test.txt
                        
    Description
    -----------
    This command will print out a list of name value pairs assigned to the. For details on how to add meta-data elements see the Set-Metadata Cmdlet.
                        
    EXAMPLE 2
                        
    # Get-metadata -sid 23465

    Description
    -----------
    This command will print out all Metadata entries for the Server with an ID = 23465.
                        
    EXAMPLE 3
                        
    # Get-metadata -cn "Marketing"
                        
    Description
    -----------
    This command will print out all Metadata entries for the Marketing Container.
                        
    EXAMPLE 4
                        
    # Get-metadata -cdn "Marketing"
                        
    Description
    -----------
    This command will print out all Metadata entries for the Marketing CDN Container.
                        
    REMARKS
    To see the examples, type: "get-help Get-Metadata -examples".
    For more information, type: "get-help Get-Metadata -detailed".
    For technical information, type: "get-help Get-Metadata -full".
</codeblock>
<p>For more robust help with examples you can also issue the command with the examples argument.</p>
<codeblock>
PS HPCS:\\&gt; Get-Help Get-Metadata -examples
                
NAME
get-metadata
  
SYNOPSIS
This Cmdlet will list out the Metadata entries assigned to the supplied resource.

EXAMPLE 1

PS yourContainer:\&gt;# get-metadata test.txt

Description
-----------
This command will print out a list of name value pairs assigned to the supplied resource.  For details on how to add meta-data

PS HPCS:\\&gt; get-help get-metadata
</codeblock>
<p>Finally if you would like to get extensive help for all available Cmdlets in one shot, issue the following</p>
<codeblock>
Get-Command -module CLIManifest | Get-Help
</codeblock>
</body>
</topic>