<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic30945">
<title>HP Helion Public Cloud CLI Software for Windows PowerShell Command Line Reference</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./publiccloud/cli.windows.2.reference.md-->
 <!--permalink: /publiccloud/cli/windows/reference/--></p>
<!-- Removed all html tags -->
<p>Below you can find a full reference of supported HP Helion Public Cloud CLI software for Windows PowerShell commands (sometimes called "cmdlets").  The commands are broken up into separate sections by functional area:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic30945/Nonservicespecific">Non-service-specific</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic30945/Compute">Compute</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic30945/ObjectStorage">Object Storage</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic30945/BlockStorage">Block Storage</xref>
<!-- * [CDN](#CDN) --></li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: The HP Helion Public Cloud CLI software for Windows PowerShell cmdlets are not case specific; in other words, <codeph>Get-Catalog</codeph> and <codeph>get-catalog</codeph> function identically. When referencing an argument, like a container name, that has a space, use quotes to access that resource. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> PS: HPCS:\&gt; cd "my container:"
 PS: HPCS:\&gt; new-container -name "my new container"
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<section id="Nonservicespecific"> <title>Non-service-specific</title>

<p>Following is the complete list of HP Helion Public Cloud Windows CLI commands that are not applicable to a specific service (compute, object storage, etc.).   To issue these commands, you need to navigate to a container or the HP Helion Public Cloud Services (HPCS) provider, issuing the following command:</p>

<codeblock>
  <codeph>cd HPCS:</codeph>
</codeblock>

<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Get-Catalog</dt>
<dd>Displays the current user's service catalog that was retrieved at login time.  This catalog stores each service the user has authorization to use.</dd>
</dlentry>

<dlentry>
<dt>Syntax</dt>
<dd>get-catalog {-v}</dd>
</dlentry>

<dlentry>
<dt>v</dt>
<dd>Verbose mode; displays detailed information about each service that's available</dd>
</dlentry>

<dlentry>
<dt>Examples</dt>
<dd>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; get-catalog</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the available services.</p>
<codeblock>
<codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; get-catalog -v</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the available services with extended information about each available service.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</section>
<section id="getconfig"> <title>Get-Config</title>
<p>Lists the config file entries for the current session.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>get-config</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\&gt; get-config

 ==============================================================================================
 Current Session Settings are as follows.
 ==============================================================================================

 Configuration File located at C:\Users\morando\Documents\HP\CLI.config


 Name                           Value
 ----                           -----
 LogReadAttemptsMax             20
 ReleaseNotesURI                https://a248.e.akamai.net/cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/hdb0a98359ca04396dd429335015a1b4b/prodaw...
 AccessKey                      ***********
 AuthenticationServiceURI       https://region-a.geo-1.identity.hpcloudsvc.com:35357/v2.0/tokens
 HttpTimeoutInterval            9200000
 RDPClientPath                  40000
 EnableCredentialTracking       true
 LogReadAttemptIntervalInMil... 40000
 delimiter                      /
 DefaultTenantId
 PasteGetURIResultsToClipboard  true
 max-keys                       10000
 SecretKey                      ***********

PS HPCS:\&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays the settings for the session.  The above example shows all currently-configurable environment variables.</p>
</section>
<section id="getmetadata"> <title>Get-Metadata</title>
<p>Lists the Metadata entries assigned to the supplied resource.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>
  <codeph>get-metadata  [*SourcePath*  | -sp *SourcePath* | -s *server-ID* | -cn "*container-name*"]</codeph>
</p>
</section>
<section id="description"> <title>Description</title>
<p>You can list metadata assigned to Servers, Storage Objects, and Containers.  Many resources can have zero to many custom meta-data entries assigned to them. <i>Get-Metadata</i> generates a list of key value pairs attached to the resource; you may use these for whatever purpose you like. (For details on how to add meta-data elements, see the <xref type="section" href="#topic30945/setmetadata">Set-Metadata</xref> cmdlet.)</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sp</b>
</dt>
<dd>Path to the remote storage object. You can express paths as fully qualified (absolute) or relative to the current location in the store.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>s</b>
</dt>
<dd>Server ID.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>cn</b>
</dt>
<dd>Container name.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; get-metadata test.txt
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Generates a list of name value pairs assigned to the object via the copy operation's use of the -md argument.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; get-metadata -sid 23465
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists all metadata entries for the server with the ID=23465.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 3</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; get-metadata -cn "Marketing"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists all metadata entries for the container "Marketing".</p>
</section>
<section id="getnotes"> <title>get-notes</title>
<p>Displays the release notes for the current version. You can filter the release notes to a specific version or show all previous release notes.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>Get-Notes {-all <i>switch</i>} {-v <i>switch</i>}</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>Prints all release notes</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>v</b>
</dt>
<dd>Prints the release notes for the specific WinCLI version in the for of xx.xx.xx.xx.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>get-notes
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the current release notes.</p>
</section>
<section id="getversion"> <title>Get-Version</title>
<p>Displays the current version number.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>Get-Version</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>get-version
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays the product's current version.</p>
</section>
<section id="getzone"> <title>Get-Zone</title>
<p>Lists the currently-used availability zone.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>Get-Zone</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>get-zone
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays which availability zone is currently being used.</p>
</section>
<section id="getzones"> <title>Get-Zones</title>
<p>Lists all currently-availability zones.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>get-zones</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\\&gt; get-zones

Current Availability Zones include


Zone Id  Name                 Shell Foreground Color  Is Default
-------  ----                 ----------------------  ----------
1        az-1.region-a.geo-1  Green                   True
2        az-2.region-a.geo-1  Red                     False
3        az-3.region-a.geo-1  Blue                    False
4        az-1.region-b.geo-1  Magenta                 False

PS HPCS:\\&gt;    
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays all the availability zones with their color information.</p>
</section>
<section id="setconfig"> <title>Set-Config</title>
<p>Changes specific settings on a per session basis. All settings may be changed simultaneously by supplying the path to a different config file.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-config -k *Key -v *Value</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; set-config -k "HttpTimeOut" -v "100"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Changes the HttpTimeout setting to 100 miliseconds</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; set-config -s "c:\testconfig.config"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Replaces all current session settings with those defined within the testconfig.config file.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 3</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; set-config -resercfg"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Resets the current session settings to those defined within the default config file (CLI.config)</p>
</section>
<section id="setcredentials"> <title>Set-Credentials</title>
<p>Sets the credentials (access key, secret key, and so on) for your session.
<!--   Set-Credentials [-AccessKey] <String> [-SecretKey] <String> [-TenantId] <String>   --></p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-credentials -AccessKey <i>access-key</i> -SecretKey <i>secret-key</i> -TenantId <i>tenant-id</i>
</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: If you execute <codeph>set-credentials</codeph> with no arguments or options, you are prompted for the input values.</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>set-credentials -AccessKey 12345678901234:12345678901234 -SecretKey abcd1EFGH2ijklmnop3QRSTUV4wxyz5678 -TenantId 31415926535898
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Sets the session credentials for the access key to <codeph>12345678901234:12345678901234</codeph>, secret key to <codeph>abcd1EFGH2ijklmnop3QRSTUV4wxyz5678</codeph>, and tenant ID to <codeph>31415926535898</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="setmetadata"> <title>Set-Metadata</title>
<p>Allows you to add meta-data elements to an existing resource. Storage objects can have zero to many custom meta-data entries assigned to them.  This is essentially a list of key value pairs attached to the object that you may use for whatever you would like. Delimit the name value pairs (NVPs) with the pipe symbol | and enclose them in quotes. You can delimit multiple NVPs with commas.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-metadata  [<i>SourcePath</i> | -sp <i>SourcePath</i> | -s <i>server-ID</i> ] -md ["<i>name</i>" {"<i>name2</i>" . . .}]</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sp</b>
</dt>
<dd>Path to the remote storage object. You can express paths as fully qualified (absolute) or relative to the current location in the store.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>s</b>
</dt>
<dd>Server ID.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>md</b>
</dt>
<dd>Pipe-delimited set of key value pairs separated by commas.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; set-metadata test.txt -md "Author|Tom", "Editor|Sam"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Adds the KVPs "Author|Tom" and "Editor|Sam" to the file test.txt.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; set-metadata -s 1345 -md "Author|Tom", "Editor|Sam"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Applies the KVPs "Author|Tom" and "Editor|Sam" to the server with the ID=1345.</p>
</section>
<section id="setzone"> <title>Set-Zone</title>
<p>Sets the availability zone; all subsequently-issued commands will apply to the assigned availability zone.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-zone "<i>zone-ID</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>set-zone "1"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Sets the availability zone to "az-2-region-a.geo-1".</p>


</dl>
</section>


<section id="Compute"> <title>Compute CLI Commands</title>
<p>Following is the complete list of HP Helion Public Cloud Windows Compute CLI commands.</p>
</section>
<section id="Add-Rule"> <title>Add-Rule</title>
<p>Creates a new security group rule and assigns it to an existing security group.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>add-rule [ -fp "<i>FromPort</i>" -tp "<i>ToPort</i>" | -ipr "<i>low</i>/<i>high</i>" ] -ipp "<i>Protocol</i>" -gid "<i>GroupID</i>"</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>fp</b>
</dt>
<dd>From Port: designates the low end of the port range to which this rule applies.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>tp</b>
</dt>
<dd>To Port: designates the high end of the port range to which this rule applies.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>ipr</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<codeph>/</codeph>-separated range of IP addresses to which the rule applies (highest/lowest).</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>ipp</b>
</dt>
<dd>The protocol affected by this rule. Valid values include tcp, udp, and icmp.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>gid</b>
</dt>
<dd>The security group ID used to apply this rule. If your current location is within one of these groups the ID is implied and therefore optional.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>add-rule -fp "80" -tp "84" -ipp "tcp" -ipr "15.185.118.75" -gid "2133"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new security group rule affecting the TCP protocol from port 80 to 84, and assigns it to SecurityGroup 2133.</p>
</section>
<section id="Allocate"> <title>Allocate-IP</title>
<p>Requests a new Floating IP and adds to your IP pool.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>allocate-ip</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>allocate-ip
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="Assign-IP"> <title>Assign-IP</title>
<p>Assigns an allocated IP address to an existing server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>assign-ip "<i>address</i>" <i>server-ID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>assign-ip "192.168.110.45" -s 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Assigns the IP address 192.168.45 to the server with the ID -s 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31.</p>
</section>
<section id="Connect-Server"> <title>Connect-Server</title>
<p>Creates quick connection to the designated server instance.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> Currently available for Windows instances only.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>connect-server <i>instance-ID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>connect-server 123456
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Performs a connection to the server with the ID <codeph>123456</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="Get-Limits"> <title>Get-Limits</title>
<p>Shows your quota amounts for Compute assets</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>get-limits</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>get-limits
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="Get-Password"> <title>Get-Password</title>
<p>Displays the password for a server instance.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>get-password <i>instance-ID</i>
</p>
<p>If you do not enter the keypair name, <codeph>Get-Password</codeph> prompts you for it.  In order to invoke <codeph>get-password</codeph>, both of the following must be true:</p>
<ul>
<li>The server must appear in the server list </li>
<li>The listing of the EventLog for the server (<codeph>PS HPCS:\Servers\server_id\EventLog</codeph>), must display the encrypted key</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This cmdlet is currently available for Windows instances only. This password is not updated if you re-sync the administrator password with the <codeph>reset-password</codeph> command; it displays the original generated password as long as the eventlog is available.</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\&gt; get-password 123456
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays the password for the server instance <codeph>123456</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="ls"> <title>Ls</title>
<p>Lists the currently-available servers, flavors, images, networking, and security group and their associated information.  The information listed is dependent on the directory in which you execute the command.  For example, if you are in the directory "\Servers", the server information is listed.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: The HP Helion Public Cloud environment CLI software for Windows PowerShell supports the <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa717088(v=vs.85).aspx" scope="external" format="html" >standard Windows wildcard</xref> characters asterix (<codeph>*</codeph>), question mark (<codeph>?</codeph>), and range brackets (<codeph>[]</codeph>).</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>ls</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\Servers&gt; ls
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the currently-available servers and their associated details.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\Flavors&gt; ls
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the currently-available flavors and their associated details.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-FloatingIP"> <title>New-FloatingIP</title>
<p>Creates a new Floating IP.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-floatingip</p>
<p>new-floatingip -pid <i>portID</i> -nid <i>NetworkID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>pid</b>
</dt>
<dd>Floating IP port identifier value.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>nid</b>
</dt>
<dd>Floating IP network identifier value.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>new-FloatingIP -pid 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -nid bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new Floating IP address for Network 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 and Port bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Image"> <title>New-Image</title>
<p>Creates a new server image based on an existing server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-image "<i>existing-server-name</i>" "<i>new-server-name</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>new-image myserver testserver
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new server instance <codeph>testserver</codeph> based on the existing server instance <codeph>testserver</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Keypair"> <title>New-Keypair</title>
<p>Creates a new keypair. The keypair is stored by default in <codeph>C:\Users\*username*\Documents\HP</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-keypair <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>new-keypair "TestKey"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new keypair with the name "TestKey.pem".</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Network"> <title>New-Network</title>
<p>Creates a new Network.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-network</p>
<p>new-network -n <i>Name</i> - asu <i>AdminStateUp</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Name of new Network.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>asu</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>AdminStateUp. Determines if AdminStateUp flag is true or false.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-network "testNet1" -asu 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new Network testNet1 with AdminStateUp set to "true".</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Port"> <title>New-Port</title>
<p>Creates a new Port.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-port</p>
<p>new-port -n <i>Name</i> - asu <i>AdminStateUp</i> -nid <i>NetworkID</i> -did <i>PortsDeviceID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Port name.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>asu</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Determines if AdminStateUp flag is true or false.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>nid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Port Network.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>did</b>
</dt>
<dd>Identifies Port Device.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-port "testPort1" -nid bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 -asu -did "sdf\etc" 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new Port called testNet1 on Network bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 with its AdminStateUp set to true and a Device = sdf\etc.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Router"> <title>New-Router</title>
<p>Creates a new Router.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-router</p>
<p>new-router -n <i>Name</i> -asu <i>AdminStatep</i> - egw <i>ExternalGatewayNeworkID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Router name.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>asu</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Determines if AdminStateUp flag is true or false.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>egw</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies External Gateway Network.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-router "testRouter1" -asu -egw bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new Router called testRouter1 on External Network bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 with its AdminStateUp set to true.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-RouterInterface"> <title>New-RouterInterface</title>
<p>Creates a new RouterInterface.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-routerinterface</p>
<p>new-routerinterface -rid <i>RouterID</i> -sid <i>SubnetID</i> -pid <i>portID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>rid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Router.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Subnet.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>pid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Port.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-routerinterface -rid bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 -pid c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8 -sid 7yuu9886-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new relationship between Router (bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224), Port (c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8) and Subnet (7yuu9886-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8)</p>
</section>
<section id="New-SecurityGroup"> <title>New-SecurityGroup</title>
<p>Creates a new security group.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-securitygroup -n "<i>name</i>" "<i>description</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>new-securitygroup -n "TestGroup" -d "SomeDescription"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new security group with the name "TestGroup" and the description "SomeDescription".</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Server"> <title>New-Server</title>
<p>Creates a new server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-server -n "<i>name</i>" -i "<i>image-ref-ID</i>" -f "<i>flavor-ref-ID</i>"<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
  {-md ["<i>name</i>" {"<i>name2</i>" . . .}] {-s "<i>server-ID</i>"}}<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
  -sg "<i>security-group</i>" -k "<i>key-name</i>"</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>Server name.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>i</b>
</dt>
<dd>The image identifier (ImageRefId) used to define this server.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>f</b>
</dt>
<dd>The flavor identifier (FlavorRefId) used to define the server.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>md</b> (optional)</dt>
<dd>Pipe-delimited set of metadata name value pairs separated by commas.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>s</b> (optional)</dt>
<dd>The identifier (ServerId) used to associate the metadata for the server. If your currently viewing a servers details, this parameter may be omitted as it's supplied for you.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sg</b>
</dt>
<dd>Set of SecurityGroup names that are to be applied to the newly created server separated by commas.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>k</b>
</dt>
<dd>Keypair for this server.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>new-server -n "TestServer" -i "2111" -f "100" -md "Namevalue1 | value1", "NameValue2 | value2", "NameValue3 | value3" -sg "securitygroupname","securitygroupname2" -k "KeyName"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new server with the name <codeph>TestServer</codeph>, along with some metadata.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\Flavors&gt; New-Server -n TestServer -s "default" 
cmdlet New-Server at command pipeline position 1 
Supply values for the following parameters: 
(Type !? for Help.) 
ImageRef: 102 
FlavorRef: 100 
KeyName: mySecurityGroup
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new server with the name 'TestServer'. In this example, the user is prompted for the <codeph>Image</codeph>, <codeph>Flavor</codeph>, and <codeph>KeyName</codeph> values rather than entering them on the command line directly.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Subnet"> <title>New-Subnet</title>
<p>Creates a new Subnet.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-subnet</p>
<p>new-subnet -nid <i>NetworkID</i> -ipv <i>IPVersion</i> -c <i>CIDRValue</i> -a <i>AllocationPools</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>nid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Subnet name.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>ipv</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Sets the IP Version</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>c</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>CIDR value.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>a</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Lists Allocation Pools, separating them by commas.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-subnet -n testSubnet -nid bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 -ipv 4 -c "10.0.6.0/24" -a "10.0.6.20", "10.0.6.22", "10.0.6.26", "10.0.6.29" 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new Subnet called testSubnet.</p>
</section>
<section id="Ping-Server"> <title>Ping-Server</title>
<p>Sends echo request packets to the named server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>ping-server <i>instance_ID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\Servers&gt; ping-server 123456

2 assigned IP addresses found.  Ping results are as follows.

Pinging Server : 10.5.180.96
Time to live   : 64
Don't fragment : True
ping status    : TimedOut

Pinging Server : 15.185.107.139
Time to live   : 64
Don't fragment : True
ping status    : Success
Address        : 15.185.107.139
RoundTrip time : 62
Time to live   : 59
Don't fragment : False
Buffer size    : 32
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Sends echo request packets to the server with the ID 123456 and returns the results.</p>
</section>
<section id="Reboot-Server"> <title>Reboot-Server</title>
<p>Allows you to perform either a soft or hard reboot of a server. With a soft reboot, the operating system is signaled to restart, which allows for a graceful shutdown of all processes. A hard reboot is the equivalent of cycling power on the server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>reboot-server "<i>server-ID</i>" [ "SOFT" | "HARD" ]</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>reboot-server "4516" "SOFT"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Performs a soft reboot of server 4516.</p>
</section>
<section id="Refresh-Cache"> <title>Refresh-Cache</title>
<p>Refreshes current shell cache.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>refresh-cache</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>refresh-cache
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Refreshes the cache for your current shell.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-FloatingIP"> <title>Remove-FloatingIP</title>
<p>Removes an existing Floating IP address.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-floatingip</p>
<p>remove-floatingip -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies the Floating IP address to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Removes all Floating IP addresses.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-floatingIP 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes the Floating IP with id of 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Keypair"> <title>Remove-Keypair</title>
<p>Removes a previously created keypair.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-keypair <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-keypair "TestKey"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the keypair with the name <codeph>TestKey</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Network"> <title>Remove-Network</title>
<p>Removes an existing Network.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-network</p>
<p>remove-network -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Floating IP address to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>Removes all Floating IP addresses.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-network -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898  
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes the Network with the id of 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Port"> <title>Remove-Port</title>
<p>Removes an existing port.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-port</p>
<p>remove-port -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies port to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Removes all ports.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-port -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes the Port with the id of 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Router"> <title>Remove-Router</title>
<p>Removes an existing router.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-router</p>
<p>remove-router -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies router to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Removes all routers.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-router 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the Router with the id of 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-RouterInteface"> <title>Remove-RouterInterface</title>
<p>Removes an existing relationship between a Router and a Subnet.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-routerinterface</p>
<p>remove-routerinterface -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Router/Subnet relationship to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Removes all Router/Subnet relationships.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-routerinterface -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -sid Removes the association between Router 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 and Subnet bd1c30f7-71f1-455e-b91e-8d03da7f5224 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Rule"> <title>Remove-Rule</title>
<p>Removes an existing security group rule.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-rule "<i>rule-ID</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-rule -id "3244"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the rule with the ID of 3244.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-SecurityGroup"> <title>Remove-SecurityGroup</title>
<p>Deletes an existing security group.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-securitygroup -id "<i>group-ID</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-securitygroup -id "3244"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the security group with the ID of 3244.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Server"> <title>Remove-Server</title>
<p>Deletes an existing Server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-server [ "<i>server-ID</i>" | -all ]  "<i>server-ID</i>"</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>-all</b>
</dt>
<dd>Deletes all servers</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-server "4516"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes server 4516.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Subnet"> <title>Remove-Subnet</title>
<p>Removes an existing subnet.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-subnet</p>
<p>remove-subnet -id -all</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies the Subnet to remove.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>all</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Removes all Subnets.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-Subnet 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 &lt;/dev:code&gt;-
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the Subnet with the id of 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898</p>
</section>
<section id="reset-password"> <title>Reset-Password</title>
<p>Re-syncs your Windows administrator password for the given server, after manual modification, in order to use the <codeph>connect-server</codeph> cmdlet.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>reset-password -id "<i>serverID</i>" -p "<i>password</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>reset-password -id "3245" -p "testpassword08"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Re-syncs the Windows session administrator password with that of the server with the ID of "3245" to "testpassword08".</p>
</section>
<section id="Set-ZoneColor"> <title>Set-ZoneColor</title>
<p>Sets the availability zone; all subsequently-issued commands are applied to the assigned availability zone.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-zonecolor <i>zone_ID</i> <i>color</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS HPCS:\\&gt; set-zonecolor 1 Cyan

az-1.region-a.geo-1 now assigned to Cyan.

PS HPCS:\\&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Sets the color identifier for zone 1 to cyan.  The color names must be capitalized (as in the example).</p>
</section>
<section id="Unassign-IP"> <title>Unassign-IP</title>
<p>Unassigns an IP address for an existing Server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>unassign-ip 
unassign-ip <i>address</i> -sid  <i>server-ID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>ip</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The IP address to disassociate.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The Server ID that is disassociated from the IP address.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># unassign-IP "192.168.110.45" -s 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the supplied IP address from server 4ee64397-1253-473c-a81d-bc23dceeef31</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-FloatingIP"> <title>Update-FloatingIP</title>
<p>Updates an existing Floating IP.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-floatingip</p>
<p>update-floatingip -id <i>ID</i> -pid <i>portID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Floating IP.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>pid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Port.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># update-FLoatingIP -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -pid c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Updates the Floating IP (12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898) to the new Port (c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8)</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-Network"> <title>Update-Network</title>
<p>Updates an existing Network.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-network</p>
<p>update-network -id <i>networkIP Identity</i> -n <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies Network IP.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Network Name.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># update-Network -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -n "NewNameTest" 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Changes the Network(12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898) name to NewNameTest.</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-Port"> <title>Update-Port</title>
<p>Updates an existing port.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-port</p>
<p>update-port -id -did</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Port IP ID.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>did</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Device ID.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># update-Port -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -did "sdf\test" 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Changes the Port(12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898) device to "sdf\test".</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-Router"> <title>Update-Router</title>
<p>Updates an existing Router.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-router</p>
<p>update-router- id <i>RouterIdentifier</i> -nid <i>NetworkID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies the Router</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>nid</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies the Network.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># update-Router -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -nid c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Reassigns Router 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 to Network c9e32588-5b69-4100-a1a6-fa49094ec0a8.</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-Server"> <title>Update-Server</title>
<p>Allows you to change the server name property.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-server -id "<i>server-ID</i>" -n "<i>name</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>update-server -id "2133" -n "NewName"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Changes the name of server 2133 to "NewName".</p>
</section>
<section id="Update-Subnet"> <title>Update-Subnet</title>
<p>Updates an existing Subnet.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>update-subnet</p>
<p>update-subnet -id <i>SubnetIdentifier</i> -egw <i>ExternalGatewayNetworkIPAddress</i> - n <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="options"> <title>Options</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>id</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Identifies the Subnet.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>egw</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>External Gateway Network ID.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>n</b>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>New Subnet name.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<p>
<!-- Example section -->
    # update-Subnet -id 12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898 -egw 129.15.124.12 -n "NewSubnetName" 
Reassigns the Subnet(12857174-99cf-40e9-999e-fb0fa2e84898) to the designated External Network with the new name of "NewSubnetName".</p>
</section>
<section id="ObjectStorage"> <title>Object Storage CLI Commands</title>
<p>Following is the complete list of HP Helion Public Cloud Windows Object Storage CLI commands.</p>
</section>
<section id="Cd"> <title>Cd</title>
<p>Allows you to traverse through a directory structure (along both ascendant and descendant axis).</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>cd *target</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; cd foo\bar
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Sets the current folder to "bar" location 2 levels deep.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\foo\bar&gt; cd .. 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Moves the current folder to "foo" from its current position (bar)</p>
</section>
<section id="Copy"> <title>Copy</title>
<p>Allows you to move files in the following ways:</p>
<ul>
<li>Local Client to Object Storage</li>
<li>Within Object Storage</li>
<li>From Object Storage to the Local Client</li>
</ul>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: <b>copy</b> supports the <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa717088(v=vs.85).aspx" scope="external" format="html" >standard Windows wildcard</xref> characters asterix (<codeph>*</codeph>), question mark (<codeph>?</codeph>), and range brackets (<codeph>[]</codeph>).</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>copy *[source] target  [-recurse]</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; copy c:\test\
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Copies the entire folder named "test" to the current location within Object Storage. This is a non-recursive operation.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; copy c:\test\ -recurse
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Copies the entire folder named "test" (along with all descendant folders) to the current location within Object Storage. This is a recursive operation.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 3</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; copy test\ incoming\
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This copies the folder within Object Storage called "test" to the folder named "incoming". Both folders are adjacent to the current directory.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 4</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; copy foo\bar\anothertest.txt c:\incoming\
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This example copies the file "anothertest.txt" location two levels deep from the current location within Object Storage, to the local Incoming folder.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 5</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; copy sourceContainerName\folder1\ targetContainerName\FolderX\ -r
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This examples copies the folder <codeph>folder1</codeph> from container <codeph>sourceContainerName</codeph> to container <codeph>targerContainerName</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="Copy-Item"> <title>Copy-Item</title>
<p>Copies an item from one location to another.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>copy-item "<i>source-object</i>" "<i>target-object</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>copy-item my-file backup-file
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Copy's the object <codeph>my-file</codeph> to the object <codeph>backup-file</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="del"> <title>Del</title>
<p>Removes an object from storage.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: <b>del</b> supports the <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa717088(v=vs.85).aspx" scope="external" format="html" >standard Windows wildcard</xref> characters asterix (<codeph>*</codeph>), question mark (<codeph>?</codeph>), and range brackets (<codeph>[]</codeph>).</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>del -t "<i>object</i>"</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>-t</b>
</dt>
<dd>Path to the storage object to be removed</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt;# del test.xml
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the storage object <codeph>test.xml</codeph> from the current directory.</p>
</section>
<section id="get-uri"> <title>Get-Uri</title>
<p>Lists the fully qualified URI of the resource that you supply.  The optional parameters allow you to define a timespan for the URI.  When you issue this command, the URI is also pasted to the Windows clipboard for your convenience. If you want to disable this behavior, set the <codeph>CLI.config</codeph> option <codeph>PasteGetURIResultsToClipboard</codeph> to <codeph>false</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>get-uri <i>filename</i> {-dv <i>days-valid</i>} {-sv <i>seconds-valid</i>}</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<i>filename</i>
</dt>
<dd>Source path to the storage object</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>dv</b>
</dt>
<dd>Number of days the URI is valid</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sv</b>
</dt>
<dd>Number of seconds the URI is valid</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; get-uri anothertest.txt.

Object located at : https://region-a.geo-1.objects.hpcloudsvc.com/v1/AUTH_e9e11fd3-ec18-4415-8b4f-e7b7ec9eed8e/Kaushik/test11.html
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays the fully qualified URI for the file <codeph>anothertest.txt</codeph>.</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; get-uri anothertest.txt -dv 27

Object located at   : https://region-a.geo-1.objects.hpcloudsvc.com/v1/AUTH_e9e11fd3-ec18-4415-8b4f-e7b7ec9eed8e/Kaushik/test11.html?temp_url_sig=95110298407447%3a95110298407447%3a75713970004400%3a84d2be6d472d06b7e83ca4af42b5ea14cc01596c
&amp;temp_url_expires=1361904513
Url Expiration Date : 2/26/2013. [120 day(s) \ 1361904513 seconds.]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Displays the URI for the file <codeph>anothertest.txt</codeph>, where the URI is valid for 27 days.</p>
</section>
<section id="LsOS"> <title>Ls</title>
<p>Allows you to list available resources within the current Container.</p>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: <b>ls</b> supports the <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa717088(v=vs.85).aspx" scope="external" format="html" >standard Windows wildcard</xref> characters asterix (<codeph>*</codeph>), question mark (<codeph>?</codeph>), and range brackets (<codeph>[]</codeph>).</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>ls {<i>target</i>}</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; ls
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the contents of the current folder (in this case root)</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; ls foo\bar
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Lists the contents of the "bar" folder located two levels from the current directory (root).</p>
<!-- ##Map-Drive## {#Map-Drive}
Maps a container owned by a different user to your list of available drives.

###Syntax###
 map-drive <drive_URL>
 
### Examples#
EXAMPLE 1

    map-drive https://objects.werr.net:443/v1/9153476658759/rgtest2

Maps the `rgtest2` container to your list of available drives. -->
</section>
<section id="Md"> <title>Md</title>
<p>Allows you organize your resources within Object Storage in a hierarchical fashion through the use of folders.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>md <i>target</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourContainer:\&gt; md foo
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This creates a sub-folder under the current folder (in this example root).</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> PS yourContainer:\&gt; md foo\bar
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>This examples creates another sub-folder but this time the target location is two levels deep from the current location (root).</p>
</section>
<section id="Migrate-Drive"> <title>Migrate-Drive</title>
<p>Migrates existing stores of data from external sources like S3, Dropbox and Skydrive to a target Container within HP Object Storage.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>migrate-drive -p "<i>bucket</i>" -sk "<i>secret-key</i>" -ak "<i>access-key</i>"</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>p</b>
</dt>
<dd>Bucket type, e.g. <codeph>S3</codeph>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>sk</b>
</dt>
<dd>Secret key ID.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>ak</b>
</dt>
<dd>Access key ID.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>b</b>
</dt>
<dd>Comma-deliniated bucket names to be copied to the HP Helion Public Cloud system.</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>migrate-drive -p "S3" -sk "aa78676dhhh100" -ak "jhjhgu64332" -b "testb1", "testb2"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Copies the <codeph>testb1</codeph> and <codeph>testb2</codeph> S3 buckets to the HP object storage containers of the same name, using a secret-key value of "<codeph>aa78676dhhh100</codeph>" and an access-key value of "<codeph>jhjhgu64332</codeph>".</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Container"> <title>New-Container</title>
<p>Creates a new storage container.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-container -name  <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; New-container -name marketing
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a new container named marketing.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Container"> <title>Remove-Container</title>
<p>After confirmation, deletes a container entirely. If any files exist within the container, they are deleted as well.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-container  <i>Name</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>PS yourcontainer:\&gt; remove-container marketing
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes the container named marketing and all of its contents.</p>
<!-- ##Remove-Drive## {#Remove-Drive}
Removes an existing mapped drive.

###Syntax###
 remove-drive <drive_URL>

### Examples#
EXAMPLE 1

    remove-drive rgtest
    
Removes the container `rgtest` from your list of available drives. -->
</section>
<section id="Remove-Item"> <title>Remove-Item</title>
<p>Removes an object from your object storage container.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-item "<i>object</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-item my-object
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the object <codeph>'my-object</codeph> from the container.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Metadata"> <title>Remove-Metadata</title>
<p>Removes the metadata from an object in storage.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-metadata "<i>object</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>remove-metadata my-object
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the metadata from the object <codeph>my-object</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="Set-Scope"> <title>Set-Scope</title>
<p>Sets the scope of a Private Container to Public.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>set-scope  <i>Name</i> PUBLIC</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>marketing:\&gt; set-scope yourcontainer -s PUBLIC
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Allows you to access resources hosted within the Marketing Container over the public Internet.</p>
<!-- Removed per DXCLI-83
#CDN CLI  Commands# {#CDN}

##Get-CDN## {#Get-CDN}
Lists all CDN-enabled containers and their associated CDN entries.

### Syntax###
get-cdn

### Examples#
EXAMPLE

    get-cdn

Lists all CDN-enabled containers and their associated CDN entries.

##New-CDN## {#New-CDN}
Creates a new CDN entry for the specified container.

###Syntax###
new-cdn -n "*container-name*"

### Examples#
EXAMPLE

    new-cdn -n "TestContainer"

Creates a new CDN entry for the container "TestContainer".

##Remove-CDN## {#Remove-CDN}
Removes a CDN entry from the specified container.

### Syntax###
remove-cdn -n "*container-name*"

### Examples#
EXAMPLE

    remove-cdn -n "TestContainer"

Removes a CDN entry from container "TestContainer".
-->
</section>
<section id="blockstorage"> <title>Block Storage CLI Commands</title>
</section>
<section id="Attach-Volume"> <title>Attach-Volume</title>
<p>Associates a volume with an existing server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>attach-volume <i>server_id</i> <i>volume_id</i> "<i>device_name</i>"</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># attach-volume 21 2345 "/dev/vdp"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Associates the volume with the volume ID <codeph>2345</codeph> to the server with the ID of <codeph>21</codeph>, with the assigned device name of <codeph>/dev/vdX</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="Detach-Volume"> <title>Detach-Volume</title>
<p>Disassociates a volume from an existing server.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>detach-volume <i>server_id</i> <i>volume_id</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># detach-volume 21 2345
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Disassociates the volume with the ID of 2345 from the server with the ID of 21.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Snapshot"> <title>New-Snapshot</title>
<p>Creates a new snapshot of your block storage volumes.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-snapshot "<i>snapshot_name</i>" ["<i>snapshot_description</i>"] <i>volume_id</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-snapshot "TestSnapshot" "This is a simple Snapshot test" 2344
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates a snapshot with the name <codeph>TestSnapshot</codeph> and the description <codeph>This is a simple Snapshot test</codeph> of the block storage volume with the ID of 2344.</p>
</section>
<section id="New-Volume"> <title>New-Volume</title>
<p>Creates a new block storage volume.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>new-volume "<i>volume_name</i>" ["<i>volume_description</i>"] <i>volume_size</i> ["<i>metadata</i>"]</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE 1</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-volume "TestVolume" "This is a simple Volume test" 20
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates the new volume <codeph>TestVolume</codeph> with a size of 20 gigabytes and the description "This is a simple Volume test".</p>
<p>EXAMPLE 2</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># new-volume "TestVolume" "This is a simple Volume test" 20 "test|data", "another|test"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Creates the new volume <codeph>TestVolume</codeph> with a size of 20 gigabytes, the metadata <codeph>test|data</codeph> and <codeph>another|test</codeph>, and the description "This is a simple Volume test".</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Snapshot"> <title>Remove-Snapshot</title>
<p>Deletes an existing block storage snapshot.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-snapshot <i>snapshot_id</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> # remove-snapshot 2457
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Deletes the snapshot with the snapshot ID of 2457.</p>
</section>
<section id="Remove-Volume"> <title>Remove-Volume</title>
<p>Deletes an existing block storage volume.</p>
</section>
<section id="syntax"> <title>Syntax</title>
<p>remove-volume <i>volume_ID</i>
</p>
</section>
<section id="examples"> <title>Examples</title>
<p>EXAMPLE</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># remove-volume 2457
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Removes the block storage volume with the ID of <codeph>2457</codeph>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
