---
layout: public-cloud
title: "HP Helion Public Cloud Compute Overview"
permalink: /publiccloud/compute/
product: public-cloud 

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->
# HP Helion Public Cloud Compute Overview

<!-- <iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/33922384?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" width="580" height="420" frameborder="0"> </iframe> -->

Leveraging [OpenStack Compute](http://openstack.org/projects/compute/), HP Helion Public Cloud compute provides a way to instantiate virtual servers on publicly accessible physical machines hosted in HP data centers.  Key terms include:

* **Flavor** - A unique combination of disk space, memory capacity, and CPU
* **Image** - A collection of files used as a base installation, typically an operating system such as Ubuntu 10.10 or something similar.
* **Server** - An instance created out of a **Flavor** + an **Image**

A variety of flavors and images are provided by HP Helion Public Cloud compute that can be used to create a wide mix of servers.  The best way to learn more is to start using it yourself over at the [HP Helion Public Cloud Console](https://horizon.hpcloud.com/).  If you have any questions, try our [Forums](https://community.hpcloud.com) where you can learn from our own internal experts as well as other users in the HP Helion Public Cloud community.

## API
Do you need low level, raw REST API access to HP Helion Public Cloud compute?  Take a look at the Compute API page for the version of HP Helion Public Cloud you are using:

* [**Compute API page**](/publiccloud/api/compute)

## Bindings
If you are looking for an easier to use, language-specific way of using HP Helion Public Cloud compute, check out our [Bindings section](/bindings).

## CLI
Want scriptable access you can put in a cron job or something similar?  Go on over to our [CLI documentation](/publiccloud/cli).

## For further information

Check out the following pages for more information on using HP Helion Public Cloud compute services:

* [Windows PowerShell CLI compute examples](/publiccloud/cli/windows/compute/)
