<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3875">
<title>HPE Helion Public Cloud Website Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./publiccloud/site-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /publiccloud/site-overview/--></p>
<p>Welcome to the HPE Helion Public Cloud website! We don't know about you, but whenever we go to a new site we're always thinking, "Yeah, okay; where the heck <i>is</i> everything?"  That's the question this page is designed to answer; it contains an overview of the site as a whole, as well as some details on other web pages on the site where you can get the information you need.  So ride along with us now:</p>
<section id="quicklinks"> <title>Quicklinks</title>
<p>Rather than force you to read this whole page to find the info you need, here are a few links that maybe can help you out quickly:</p>
<ul>
<li><xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/knowledge-base" scope="external" format="html" >Knowledge Base</xref>: A collection of searchable information about HPE Helion Public Cloud. (This link is also in the navigation sidebar over on the right-hand side of every page.)</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/" scope="external" format="html" >Forums</xref>: Where users get together and discuss issues with each other and some members of the HPE Helion Public Cloud team. (This link is also in the navigation sidebar over on the right-hand side of every page.)</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://horizon.hpcloud.com/" scope="external" format="html" >Console</xref>: A link straight to the main HPE Helion Public Cloud console.  Click on it and go!</li>
<li>
  <xref href="../publiccloud/downloads.dita" >Downloads</xref>: A listing of all the downloads currently available for HPE Helion Public Cloud.</li>
</ul>
<!--Add this back in at GA:
* [Release Notes](/release-notes): Overall release note information for the HPE Helion Public Cloud software. -->
</section>
<section id="site-navigation"> <title>Site Navigation</title>
<p>You may have already noticed that the site has multiple methods for navigating; we've included these so that you can choose the method that works best for you:</p>
<ul>
<li>Next to the HPE Helion Public Cloud logo at the top of the page, there are three navigation pull-down menus and two quick links:
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>Products</b>
</xref>: Links to all the HPE Helion Public Cloud products (<xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/products/cloud-compute" scope="external" format="html" >Compute</xref>, <xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/products/object-storage" scope="external" format="html" >Object Storage</xref>, <xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/products/CDN" scope="external" format="html" >CDN</xref>, <xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/products/block-storage" scope="external" format="html" >Block Storage</xref>, <xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/products/RDB" scope="external" format="html" >Relational Database</xref>, <xref href="https://www.hpcloud.com/content/hp-cloud-identity-service" scope="external" format="html" >Identity Service</xref>)</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://docs.hpcloud.com/publiccloud/overview" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>Documentation</b>
</xref>: This here stuff you're currently reading; all the documentation available for the HPE Helion Public Cloud software (<xref href="../publiccloud/compute.dita" >Compute</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/object-storage.dita" >Object Storage</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/cdn.dita" >CDN</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/block-storage.dita" >Block Storage</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/identity.dita" >Identity Service</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/api.dita" >API</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/cli.dita" >CLI</xref>, <xref href="../publiccloud/bindings.dita" >Bindings</xref>)</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>Community</b>
</xref>:  Links to HPE Helion Public Cloud community resources (<xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/forum" scope="external" format="html" >Forum</xref>, <xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/knowledge-base" scope="external" format="html" >Knowledge Base</xref>, <xref href="https://community.hpcloud.com/status" scope="external" format="html" >System Status</xref>)</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://h30529.www3.hp.com/t5/HP-Scaling-the-Cloud-Blog/bg-p/cloudBlog" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>Blog</b>
</xref>:  A link to our blog, where you can read contributions from a number of different members of the HPE Helion Public Cloud team</li>
<li>
<xref href="https://horizon.hpcloud.com/" scope="external" format="html" >
<b>Console</b>
</xref>:  A link directly to the HPE Helion Public Cloud Console, so you can quickly access the HPE Helion Public Cloud utilities</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>On the right-hand side, you'll see a navigation panel that remains constant from page to page.  This panel contains links to the places we think you'll want to access most often:  the Site Map, the Knowledge Base, and the Forums.</li>
<li>Also on the right-hand side, when you are on certain pages lower in the documentation hierarchy, a second navigation bar appears to provide you with quick access different levels in that particular hierarchy.  For example, when you surf to Bindings page, you can see a secondary navigation box that contains links to Overview page, and the two subordinate bindings pages on Ruby Fog and jclouds. Whatever page you are on is highlighted, to help you keep your place in the hierarchy.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="where-to-start"> <title>Where to Start</title>
<ul>
  <li>See the <xref href="../publiccloud/hpcloudconsole.dita" >Getting Started Guide with HPE Helion Public Cloud Console </xref> to start navigating the web interface, activating your services, and getting up and running with the various available services</li>
<li>If you're already well versed in the cloud, feel free to just go straight to the <xref href="https://horizon.hpcloud.com" scope="external" format="html" >HPE Helion Public Cloud Console</xref> and get going</li>
</ul>
<p>So there you have it; a quick overview of what's available to you.  If you have any comments or questions, please get in touch with us via the forums.  Enjoy!</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>