<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="task_sw4_1zq_dt">
    <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Create an Automated Build-Test-Deploy Cycle</title>
    <body>
    <p>The true advantage of continuous integration is creating a build-test-deploy cycle which will
            occur automatically whenever a change is committed.</p>
        <p>When a pull request is received, developers can <xref
            href="#task_sw4_1zq_dt/tempdeploy">preview a temporary
                deployment</xref> before approving the proposed changes. Approving the pull request
            triggers the normal build-test-deploy cycle.</p>
    
    <p>You will need: <ul>
                <li>An application to deploy.</li>
                <li>An instance of the Helion Code Engine application installed.</li>
                <li>The access credentials for a valid target environment.</li>
                                            </ul></p>
     <section><title>Overview</title>
     <p>Projects contain information specifying what will happen each time the application is built:
                which environment to deploy the application to, which tests to run, who should be
                notified, and how that notification should be delivered.</p>
            <p>After the cycle is defined, each build will automatically deploy the app to the
                target environment, run the specified tests, and send relevant notifications.</p>                                       
                                            
                                            </section>
        <section><title>Steps</title>
        <ol>
            <li><xref href="engine_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/environment">Create a New Environment</xref>. This defines the deployment target.</li>
            <li><xref href="engine_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/project">Create a Project</xref>.
                    This defines the target code repository and specifies build notifications.</li>
            <li><xref href="engine_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/post">Create Post-Deployment Actions</xref>. This defines what actions to take, usually
                    testing, after the build is completed. (optional)</li>
            <li><xref href="engine_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/commit">Commit a Change</xref>.
                    Start the whole cycle from your source repo.</li>
        </ol>
        </section>
<section id="environment"><title>Specify an Environment</title>
    <p conref="engine_environment_create.dita#mf4_fh4_ht/create_environment"/>
</section>
        
        <section id="project"><title>Create a Project</title>
        <p conref="engine_create_project.dita#createProject/project_create"/></section> 
    
        <section id="post"><title>Add Post-Deployment Tasks</title><p conref="engine_create_postdeploy.dita#createPostDeploy/createpd"/></section>
        <section id="commit">
            <title>Commit and Build</title>
           <note>You can also <xref href="engine_create_build.dita">perform a manual build</xref> at any time from the HPE Helion Code Engine. </note> <p>Direct commits to the repository trigger the full automated build-test-deploy cycle. Pull
                requests, however, need to be approved. If the build runs and the test succeed, a temporary deployment is created where the proposed change can be reviewed.
                When the pull request is approved, the temporary deployment is deleted and the build
                is deployed to the specified final environment (staging, test, production, etc.) If
                the pull request is not approved, the temporary deployment is deleted and the rest
                of the cycle does not occur.</p>
            <p id="tempdeploy">The temporary deployments can be accessed in multiple ways. <ul id="ul_f1q_smw_4t">
                    <li>Notifications contain a link.</li>
                    <li>The Pull Request contains a link.</li>
                    <li>Click the <b>Builds</b> tab. Find the build in the list.
                        In the <b>Result</b> column, click the <b>View</b> link.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>      
  
    </body>

 </topic>
