<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_cfn_lvq_dt">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Continuous Integration and Deployment Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>HPE Helion Code Engine is a continuous integration and delivery system designed for small
      development teams who are interested in building "greenfield" cloud native apps and deploying
      them with Helion Development Platform. </p>
    <p>HPE Helion Code Engine leverages Git version control technologies to automate build, test and
      deploy cycles so that developers can quickly bring their ideas to life and get customer
      validation.</p>
    <p>More specifically, unit tests are automated through the most popular testing frameworks for
      the supported tech stacks and apps can be deployed to any specified environment - testing,
      staging or production.</p>
    <p>Continuous integration and development automates processes that traditionally curb agile
      development in the enterprise. HPE Helion Code engine can catalyse your journey to modern
      development workflows.</p>
    <section><title>Highlights</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Automates testing through integration with popular testing frameworks.</li>
        <li>Supports Git version control technologies: Github.com, Github Enterprise, and on-premise
          Git repositories.</li>
        <li>Deploy to any specified Helion Development Platform environment: test, staging or
          production.</li>
        <li>Supports applications built on Node.js, Java, and Python.</li>
        <li>Sends notifications to popular collaboration software such as HipChat and Flowdock.</li>
        <li>Integrates with StormRunner for post-deployment load-testing analysis.</li>
      </ul> </section>
  </body>
</topic>
