<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3111">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Metering Service (Ceilometer)
    Overview</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <!--PUBLISHED-->
      <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-reporting-overview.md-->
      <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/reporting/overview/--></p>
    <p> </p>
    <note>The deployment of the Helion OpenStack v1.1 Metering service is considered experimental
      and targeted at developers investigating integration of external software applications with
      the Ceilometer API for showback, chargeback, and billing applications only. Only a limited set
      of metrics are available in the Helion OpenStack v1.1 release. Developers interested in
      monitoring use cases should refer to the <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Monasca"
        scope="external" format="html">OpenStack Monasca service</xref> which is targeted to be
      deployed in a future Helion OpenStack release.</note>
    <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Metering service leverages the OpenStack Ceilometer service. A
      metering service takes specified measurements of both physical and virtual resources,
      including physical servers and network devices such as switches and firewalls. No matter what
      purpose the data is used for, this service provides a reliable, consistent method for data
      collection.</p>
    <section id="newIn20">
      <title>New for HP Helion OpenStack 2.0</title>
      <p> Ceilometer configuration is now possible via a number of yaml files in the HP Helion
        implementation of the OpenStack Ceilometer metering service.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="installation">
      <title>Installation</title>
      <p>The metering service is automatically installed as part of the Helion OpenStack
        installation process. It may be necessary to install the command-line interface (<xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html" scope="external"
          format="html">CLI</xref>) separately to perform various administrative tasks.</p>
      <p>The initial default configuration enables a limited subset of all potential meters,
        collecting a few essential measurements from the Nova, Cinder, Glance, and Neutron services
        only. With these measurements, the Ceilometer API can begin collecting basic Helion
        OpenStack usage and status information.</p>
      <p>Additional metrics collection for all of the Helion OpenStack infrastructure services, as
        well as other application and platform services, are targeted for future Helion OpenStack
        releases.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="working-with-ceilometer">
      <title>Working with Ceilometer</title>
      <p>All the Ceilometer processes have a unified configuration file that can be found at
          <i>/etc/ceilometer/ceilometer.conf</i> on the specific overcloud controller you are logged
        in to.</p>
      <p>Access to Ceilometer is through the command-line interface <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/ceilometerclient_commands.html"
          scope="external" format="html">(CLI)</xref>, or the low-level <xref
          href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-telemetry-v2.html" scope="external"
          format="html">REST API</xref>. A Ceilometer Horizon dashboard panel is not available at
        this time.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_components.dita">Configuration and Architecture Overview</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_metertypes.dita">Available Meter Types</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_rbac.dita">Role Based Access Control (RBAC) Policies</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_troubleshoot.dita">Troubleshooting</xref>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_troubleshoot.dita#topic1976/logging" type="section"
                >Logging</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_troubleshoot.dita#topic1976/qerrors" type="section">Messaging and Queuing
                Errors</xref>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_apiextensions.dita">API Extensions: HP Health Check API</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita#topic11470/ceilandnova" type="section">Managing
            Notifications from the Nova Service</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita">Best Practices and Performance
            Optimization</xref>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita#topic11470/webserverapi" type="section">Configuring the
                Web Server for API Performance</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita#topic11470/meterlist" type="section">Modifying the List
                of Active Meters</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita#topic11470/pollinterval" type="section">Modifying Polling
                Intervals</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref href="reporting_bestpractice.dita#topic11470/swift" type="section">Swift Service
                Considerations</xref>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
