<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rkw_gmb_f5">
  <title> HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Increasing Trove Internal Quotas</title>
  <body>
    <p>It is possible to exceed the Trove internal quotas when creating new client databases in a
      tenant. Follow this procedure to increase the Trove quotas for that tenant.<note>You may see
        the terms HPE Helion OpenStack "deployer" and "lifecycle manager" used interchangeably.
        These terms refer to the same node in your environment.</note></p>
      
<ol><li> Log in to the lifecycle manager for your HPE Helion OpenStack environment with admin
        privileges.</li><li> Source the <codeph>service.osrc</codeph> file:
        <pre>source ~/service.osrc</pre></li><li>Obtain the credentials for the Admin
        tenant.<codeblock>nova credentials</codeblock>The output should look similar to the
          following:<codeblock>+------------------+--------------------------------------+
| User Credentials | Value                                |
+------------------+--------------------------------------+
| domain           | {"id": "default", "name": "Default"} |
| id               | bb3252a8ea6b3223841783e11bd3e7dc     |
| name             | admin                                |
+------------------+--------------------------------------+
+-----------+----------------------------------+
| Token     | Value                            |
+-----------+----------------------------------+
| expires   | 2015-12-01T04:27:18.160125Z      |<b>
| id        | 80eaa95d334a443b9b111f7fcca49cae |</b><b>
| tenant_id | bb3252a8ea6b3223841783e11bd3e7dc |</b>
| user_id   | bb4472a716b4424840293c30ed558eb  |
+-----------+----------------------------------+</codeblock><ol
          id="ol_c2w_t4b_f5">
          <li>Make a note of the <codeph>id</codeph> value in the Token table. You will need it for
            the value of &lt;AUTH_TOKEN&gt;.</li>
          <li>Make a note of the <codeph>tenant_id</codeph> value in the Token table. You will need
            it for the value of &lt;ADMIN_TENANT_ID&gt;.</li>
        </ol></li><li>Retrieve a list of all available tenants.<codeblock>openstack project list </codeblock>The
        output should look similar to the
        following:<codeblock>+----------------------------------+---------------+ 
|              ID                  |     Name      | 
+----------------------------------+---------------+ 
| 09d7cee37100437a95a8144a4a7192e6 | services      | 
| 0fdce261684a4ec8b1b6e81806acbfdb | admin         | 
| 33693127f9bb42348d959eef7ff8b307 | backup        | 
| 5becfbcda5a04297bc7a8c7fe5ba17f8 | demo          | 
| a6315a51d99947ddbed2d1b8b804d194 | swift-monitor | 
| bf869aef7ce14775a60dcbc0ce77db58 | glance-swift  | 
+----------------------------------+---------------+</codeblock>Make
        a note of the <codeph>ID</codeph> value of the target tenant. You will need it for the value
        of &lt;TENANT_ID&gt;. </li><li>Execute the command <codeblock>openstack endpoint list | grep database</codeblock>The output
        should look similar to the
        following:<codeblock>+----------------------------------+---------+--------------+---------------+---------+-----------+-------------------------------+
| ID                               | Region  | Service Name | Service Type  | Enabled | Interface | URL                           |
+----------------------------------+---------+--------------+---------------+---------+-----------+-------------------------------+
| 022e5ea163e22697a8c04f443ccad119 | region1 | trove        | database      | True    | internal  | http://10.12.111.123:8070     |
...</codeblock>Make
        a note of the <codeph>URL</codeph> value. You will need it for the value of
        &lt;SERVICE_URL&gt;. </li><li>Run the <codeph>curl</codeph> command to update the Trove quota for the target tenant. The
        command uses the following
        format:<codeblock>curl -i &lt;SERVICE_URL&gt;:8779/v1.0/&lt;ADMIN_TENANT_ID&gt;/mgmt/quotas/&lt;TENANT_ID&gt; -X PUT -H "X-Auth-Project-Id: &lt;ADMIN_TENANT_ID&gt;" -H "User-Agent: python-troveclient" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -H "X-Auth-Token: &lt;AUTH_TOKEN&gt;" -d '{"quotas": {"instances": &lt;INSTANCEQUOTA&gt;, "backups": &lt;BACKUPQUOTA&gt;, "volumes": &lt;VOLUMEQUOTA&gt;}}'</codeblock>Provide
        values for the &lt;SERVICE_URL&gt;, &lt;ADMIN_TENANT_ID&gt; &lt;TENANT_ID&gt;, and
        &lt;AUTH_TOKEN&gt; from the values retrieved previously. Provide the updated values for
        &lt;INSTANCEQUOTA&gt;, &lt;BACKUPQUOTA&gt; and &lt;VOLUMEQUOTA&gt; as appropriate for your
        environment. For example:
          <codeblock>curl -i 'https://mycloud.example.com:8779/v1.0/bb3252a8ea6b3223841783e11bd3e7dc/mgmt/quotas/5becfbcda5a04297bc7a8c7fe5ba17f8' -X PUT -H "X-Auth-Project-Id: bb3252a8ea6b3223841783e11bd3e7dc" -H "User-Agent: python-troveclient" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Accept: application/json" -H "X-Auth-Token: 80eaa95d334a443b9b111f7fcca49cae" -d '{"quotas": {"instances": 1000, "backups": 1000, "volumes": 10000}}'</codeblock><note>The
          port number is not a variable; this value must be 8779.</note></li><li>When the command finishes,
        you should see output similar to the following, indicating the command has successfully
        updated the
        quotas.<codeblock>HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Content-Type: application/json 
Content-Length: 66 
Date: Tue, 01 Dec 2015 20:09:14 GMT 
{"quotas":
{"instances": 1000, "backups": 1000, "volumes": 10000} 
}</codeblock></li></ol>
  </body>
</topic>
