<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Configuring LDAP 3</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
  <p>If you installed HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 1.1, your system was configured to use LDAP v2. 
    LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) is a protocol that programs 
    use to look up information from a server. </p>
  <p>This document explains how to configure HP Helion OpenStack to use LDAP v3. </p>
  <p><b>NOTE:</b> If you installed HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade after *****, you do not need to perform these steps.
  Your installation configured LDAP v3 upon installation.</p>
  <ol>
    <li>Log into the HLM host.</li>
    <li>Execute the following commands to modify the <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file. 
      The <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file is a configuration file contains all of the settings 
      that control the services started and the repositories used to download the source for those services.
      <codeblock>
        export OS_PASSWORD=admin
        export OS_USERNAME=admin
        export OS_TENANT_NAME=admin
        export OS_AUTH_URL=https://10.200.52.100:5000/v2.0
        export OS_CACERT=/etc/stunnel/ssl/hlm/certs/ca.crt
        export OS_REGION_NAME=memphis
        unset OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME
        unset OS_USER_DOMAIN_ID
        unset OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION
        unset OS_AUTH_VERSION
        unset OS_PROJECT_NAME
      </codeblock></li>
    <li>Execute the following commands to source the <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file:
      <codeblock>source stackrc</codeblock></li>
    <li>Execute the following OpenStack CLI command to create a new project:
      <codeblock>openstack project create ldapdemo --domain americas </codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Make note of the <codeph>domain-id</codeph> in the command output.</li>
    <li>Execute the following command to list all user names:
      <codeblock>openstack user list --domain Americas</codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Make note of the ID number for the <codeph>cg-ldap-admin</codeph> user.</li>
    <li>Execute the following command to add the <codeph>cg-ldap-admin</codeph> user to the project you created as an admin.
      <codeblock>openstack role add --user &lt;user id> --project ldapdemo admin</codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Execute the following commands to source the <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file:
      <codeblock>source stackrc</codeblock></li>
    <li>Execute the following commands to modify the <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file. 
      The <codeph>stackrc</codeph> file is a configuration file contains all of the settings 
      that control the services started and the repositories used to download the source for those services.
      <codeblock>
        export OS_USERNAME=ldapuser1
        export OS_PASSWORD=init123#
        export OS_PROJECT_NAME=ldap_project1
        export OS_TENANT_NAME=ldap_project1
        export OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME=americas
        export OS_USER_DOMAIN_ID=c1f0e239545f428fb53128650ae23771
        export OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3 export OS_AUTH_VERSION=3
        export OS_AUTH_URL=https://10.20.4.100:5000/v3
        export OS_AUTH_URL=http://10.20.3.103:35357/v3
        export OS_CACERT=/etc/stunnel/ssl/hlm/certs/ca.crt
        export OS_REGION_NAME=memphis
      </codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Edit the <codeph>/etc/nova/nova.conf</codeph> file to comment out the following line:
      <codeblock>#auth_version = 2.0</codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Modify the <codeph>/etc/cinder/api-paste.ini</codeph>  file as follows:
        <p>Replace <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystoneclient.middleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
        <p>With: <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
    </li>
    <li>Modify the <codeph>/etc/glance/glance-api-paste.ini</codeph> file as follows:
      <p>Replace <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystoneclient.middleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
      <p>With: <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
    </li>
    <li>Modify the <codeph>/etc/glance/glance-registry-paste.ini</codeph> file as follows:
      <p>Replace <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystoneclient.middleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
      <p>With: <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
    </li>
    <li>Modify the <codeph>/etc/glance/glance-registry.conf</codeph> file as follows:
      <p>Replace <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystoneclient.middleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
      <p>With: <codeph>paste.filter_factory = keystonemiddleware.auth_token:filter_factory</codeph></p>
    </li>
    <li>Execute the following commands to restart affected OpenStack services:
      <codeblock>
        service glance-registry restart
        service glance-api restart
        service cinder-api restart
        service nova-api restart
      </codeblock>
    </li>
  </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
