<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4797">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Sample wr.json File for
        Installing the KVM + ESX Topology</title>
<prolog>
    <metadata>
        <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
        <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
        <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
        <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-hlm-vm-json.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/hlm-vm/json-sample/--></p>
    <p>The <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-esx-GA.dita#topic10581">process for installing the
                KVM + ESX deployment</xref> requires several JSON files that will be used when
            deploying the HLM VM.</p>
        
<section id="sample-node-provisionjson-file">
<<<<<<< .merge_file_2GNM4L
    <p>The following represents a sample <codeph>wr.json</codeph> file in the
                    <codeph>&lt;cloudname>/vars</codeph> directory of the HLM VM. The IP addresses
                are masked for security purposes. Use values appropriate for your environment.</p>
=======
            <p><b>For bonded NIC environments</b>, edit the file as follows:</p>
<codeblock>{
    "lag_interface": "Y",   
    "lag_mode": 4,
    "interface_mtu": 1500,
    "interface_ports": [
    "eth0, eth1"
],</codeblock>
>>>>>>> .merge_file_b50qSL
            <p>Return to <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-esx-GA.dita#topic10581">Installing
                    the KVM + ESX Deployment</xref>.</p>
            <p>Make sure the file contains the following lines for the TUL network. Remove any
                additional TUL entries, if present:</p>
            <codeblock>"vswitch_type": "nuage_vrs",
"tul_ip_start_address": "10.20.6.50",
"tul_ip_end_address": "10.20.6.99",
"region_name": "regionone",</codeblock>

    <p>The following represents a sample <codeph>wr.json</codeph> file. The IP addresses are
                masked for security purposes. Use values appropriate for your environment.</p>
<codeblock>{
    "product": {
        "version": 1
    },

    "property-groups": [
        {
            "name": "wr-vars",
            "properties": {
<<<<<<< .merge_file_2GNM4L
                "database_storage":, # The storage allotment for the OpenStack databases. As a reference point, a system with six hosts, 40 VMs and 120 tenant networks requires about 9 GiB.
                "backup_storage":, # The storage allotment for backup operations. To ensure enough space for at least one backup, this should be equal to or greater than the sum of "database storage" and "image storage"
                "image_storage":, # The size of the partition to use for nova instances (root and ephemeral storage for an instance accounted under this). So please specify the value (in GB) per your requirement
                "region_name": "", # Specify a custom name of the KVM region
=======
                "database_storage": 70,
                "backup_storage": 300,
                "shared_instance_storage": 250,
                "vswitch_type": "nuage_vrs",
                "tul_ip_start_address": "10.20.6.50",
                "tul_ip_end_address": "10.20.6.99",
                 "region_name": "regionone",
>>>>>>> .merge_file_b50qSL
                "logical_interface": [
                    {
                        "lag_interface": "N",
                        "lag_mode": 4,
                        "interface_mtu": 1500,
                        "interface_ports": [
                            "eth0"
                        ],
                        "network": [
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "10.20.5.50",
                                "ip_end_address": "10.20.3.99",
                                "name": "management"
                            },
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "172.16.73.50",
                                "ip_end_address": "172.16.73.99",
                                "name": "blockstore"
                            },
                            {
                                "ip_start_address": "10.20.4.50",
                                "ip_end_address": "10.20.4.99",
                                "name": "api"
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                ],
                "pxeboot_cidr": "10.20.2.0/24",
                "license_file_name": "license.lic"
            }
        }
    ]
}</codeblock>        

</section>
</body>
</topic>
