<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic7148">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Installation Prerequisites</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion Openstack Installation Prerequisites</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/prereqs/--></p>
<p>This document describes the prerequisite steps and one time setup on your HLM host required to
      install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a baremetal environment.</p>
<section id="hardware"> <title>Hardware and software requirements</title>
<p>Before you start, if you have not done so already, make sure your environment meets the hardware
                                and software requirements. See the <xref
                                        href="carrier-grade-support-matrix.dita">HP Helion OpenStack
                                        Support Matrix</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="prepbare"> <title>Preparing the baremetal systems</title>
<p>Perform the following tasks on each baremetal system before starting the install:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Configure the boot order with Network/PXE boot as the first option:</p>

<ul>
<li>For example, to set the boot order for a HP SL390, from the iLO prompt enter <codeph>set system1/bootconfig1/bootsource5 bootorder=1</codeph>.</li>
<li>To unset, enter <codeph>set system1/bootconfig1/bootsource5 bootorder=5</codeph>.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure the BIOS:</p>

<ul>
<li>to the correct date and time</li>
<li>HLM host configured in UTC (Coordinated Universal Time)</li>
<li>with only one network interface enabled for PXE/network boot and any additional interfaces should have PXE/network boot disabled</li>
<li>to stay powered off in the event of being shutdown rather than automatically restarting</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update to the latest firmware recommended by the system vendor for all system components, including the BIOS, BMC firmware, disk controller firmware, drive firmware, network adapter firmware, and so forth.</p>
                                        <p><b>Note:</b> If you are using ProLiant Gen9 blades or
                                                rack servers, you must update the Snap3 formware. </p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="kvm"> <title>Preparing the HLM host</title>
<p>The following tasks need to be performed on the HLM host, the system where the you will launch
        the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation.</p>
<ul>
<li>Install Ubuntu Server 14.04.2 LTS</li>
<li>Configure SSH</li>
<li>Obtain a public key</li>
<li>Install Debian/Ubuntu packages</li>
<li>Configure the xrdp display</li>
<li>Install and configure NTP</li>
<li>Configure proxy information </li>
<li>Set DNS servers name-resolution</li>
<li>Disabling SR-IOV
<!--
    - Download the installation packages
    - Create the JSON environment variables file
    - Create the baremetal.csv file
    - Integrating LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) --></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="ubuntu"> <title>Install Ubuntu Server 14.04.2 LTS</title>
<p>The HLM host must have Ubuntu Server 14.04.2 LTS installed before performing the HP Helion
        OpenStack Carrier Grade installation.</p>
</section>
<!--<section id="pub-key"> <title>Obtain a public key</title>
<p>On the HLM host, the user <codeph>root</codeph> must have a public key.</p>
<ol>
<li>Launch a terminal and log in to your HLM host as root:<p>sudo su -</p></li>
<li>Use the following command to create the key. Accept the default
          values.<p>/root/.ssh/id_rsa</p></li>
<li>Install the public key into the authorized keys on the HLM
            host:<codeblock><codeph>ssh-copy-id &lt;IP_address&gt;
</codeph></codeblock><p>Enter the
            IP address of the default network gateway on the HLM host.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
--><section id="proxy"> <title>Configure proxy information</title>
<p>Before you begin your installation on the HLM host, if necessary configure the proxy information
        for your environment using the following steps:</p>
<ol>
<li>Launch a terminal and log in to your HLM host as
          root:<codeblock><codeph>sudo su -
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Edit the <codeph>/etc/environment</codeph> file to add the following lines, using values
                                        specific to your
                                                environment:<codeblock><codeph>PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games"
export http_proxy=http://&lt;web_proxy_IP&gt;/
export https_proxy=http://&lt;web_proxy_IP&gt;/
export no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1,&lt;HLM_host_IP_address&gt;,&lt;provider_network&gt;
</codeph></codeblock><p>Where:</p><codeblock>&lt;web_proxy_IP> is your web proxy IP address.
&lt;HLM_host_IP_address is the IP address of the HLM Host</codeblock></li>
<li>Source the <codeph>environments</codeph>
          file:<codeblock><codeph>source /etc/environment
</codeph></codeblock></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="packages"><title>Install Ubuntu packages</title><p>Before starting the installation,
                                you must install the following packages.</p><p><b>KVM
                        host</b></p>The following packages are also required on the KVM host:<ul
                                id="ul_szw_sh4_rs">
                                <li>ntp </li>
                                <li>firefox </li>
                                <li>gedit </li>
                                <li>xrdp </li>
                                <li>xfce4 </li>
                                <li>qemu-kvm </li>
                                <li>libvirt-bin </li>
                                <li>openvswitch-switch </li>
                                <li>openvswitch-common </li>
                                <li>python-libvirt </li>
                                <li>qemu-system-x86 </li>
                                <li>libssl-dev </li>
                                <li>libffi-dev </li>
                                <li>git </li>
                                <li>python-virtualenv </li>
                                <li>python-dev virt-manager</li>
                        </ul><p><b>Non-KVM and KVM servers</b></p><p>In addition to the packages for
                                the KVM host, you must also install:</p><ul id="ul_sdp_vh4_rs">
                                <li>xorg </li>
                                <li>gnome-core </li>
                                <li>gnome-system-tools </li>
                                <li>gnome-app-install </li>
                                <li>vlan </li>
                                <li>sudo </li>
                                <li>ansible </li>
                        </ul><p>To install the packages:</p><ol>
                                <li>On the KLM host, run the following all in one command to install
                                        packages:
                                        <codeblock><codeph>sudo su -l -c "apt-get install -y ntp firefox gedit xrdp xfce4 qemu-kvm libvirt-bin openvswitch-switch openvswitch-common python-libvirt qemu-system-x86 libssl-dev libffi-dev git python-virtualenv python-dev virt-manager"</codeph></codeblock></li>
                                <li>On the other servers in the non-KVM region and all KVM region
                                        servers, run the following all in one command to install
                                        packages:<codeblock><codeph>sudo su -l -c "apt-get install -y ntp firefox gedit xrdp xfce4 qemu-kvm libvirt-bin openvswitch-switch openvswitch-common python-libvirt qemu-system-x86 libssl-dev libffi-dev git python-virtualenv python-dev virt-manager xorg gnome-core gnome-system-tools gnome-app-install vlan sudo ansible"
</codeph></codeblock></li>
                                <li>Add the 802.1q module to the kernel on boot. The 802.1q standard
                                        supports VLAN tagging on an ethernet
                                        network.<codeblock><codeph>sudo su -c 'echo "8021q" &gt;&gt; /etc/modules'
</codeph></codeblock></li>
                                <li>Reboot the server</li>
                                <li>Log out and re-login to the HLM host to activate the proxy
                                        configuration.</li>
                        </ol></section>
<section id="configure-the-xrdp-remote-desktop-display"> <title>Configure the XRDP remote desktop display</title>
<p>Configure XRDP for the remote desktop connection to access the server remotely as follows.</p>
<ol>
<li>Edit the <codeph>sesman.ini</codeph> file:<p>vi /etc/xrdp/sesman.ini</p><p>a. Update the
                                                  <codeph>MaxSessions=1</codeph> to
                                                  <codeph>MaxSessions=50</codeph>.</p><p>b. Save and
                                                close the file.</p><p>c. Configure the system to use
                                                XRDP:</p><codeblock><codeph>echo "xfce4-session" &gt; ~/.xinitrc
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Restart the XDRP service:<p>sudo /etc/init.d/xrdp restart</p></li>
</ol>
<p>If the XDRP display does not work as expected, (you see a gray screen), update the <codeph>startwm.sh</codeph> file:</p>
<codeblock><codeph>vi /etc/xrdp/startwm.sh

#!/bin/sh

if [ -r /etc/default/locale ]; then
. /etc/default/locale
export LANG LANGUAGE
fi

#. /etc/X11/Xsession
. /usr/bin/startxfce4
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Make sure you add a space after "." then restart XDRP:</p>
<codeblock><codeph>sudo /etc/init.d/xrdp restart
</codeph></codeblock>
</section>
<section id="ntp"> <title>Install and configure NTP</title>
<p>NTP is a networking protocol for clock synchronization between computer systems.</p>
<p>The HP Helion OpenStack cloud nodes must be configured as NTP clients and point to the same NTP server.</p>
<p>You can install NTP on the HLM host and configure it as an NTP server. Or, you can use a
        pre-existing NTP server that is reachable from the management network. You will also need to
        configure the undercloud and overcloud systems as NTP clients pointing to the NTP server you
        have chosen to use during the installation process.</p>
<p>For information on installing NTP on the HLM host, see <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-NTP.dita">Installing an NTP
          Server</xref>.</p>
</section><section id="ssh"> <title>Configure SSH</title>
<p>On the HLM host, the OpenSSH server must be running and the firewall configuration should allow
        access to the SSH ports.</p>
<ol>
<li>Enable root login in the <codeph>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</codeph>  by setting the following values
                                        and save the file:
                                        <codeblock># Authentication:
LoginGraceTime 120
#PermitRootLogin without-password
PermitRootLogin yes
#StrictModes yes
StrictModes no
PermitRootLogin yes
</codeblock></li>
<!--<li>In the <codeph>sshd_config</codeph> file, set the following
          variables:<codeblock><codeph># Authentication:
LoginGraceTime 120
#PermitRootLogin without-password
StrictModes no
</codeph></codeblock></li>
--><li>Disable strict host key checking: in the <codeph>~/.ssh/config</codeph> file (create the file if
                                        it does not exist) add following lines and save the file:
                                        <codeblock>Host *
StrictHostKeyChecking no </codeblock></li>
        
<li>Restart SSH service<codeblock><codeph>service ssh restart
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Configure the public key and passwordless SSH access.<p>a. Enter the following
            command:</p><codeblock><codeph>ssh-keygen -t rsa 
</codeph></codeblock><p>b. Press Enter
            to use default path (/root/.ssh/id_rsa)</p><p>c. Press enter for passphrase</p><p>d.
            Press enter again to confirm the empty passphrase</p><p>The output of the public key
            will display, similar to the
            following:</p><codeblock><codeph>ssh-copy-id 192.168.122.1 
</codeph></codeblock><p>If
            you get a permission denied error, make sure you are logged in as root.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="getinstall"> <title>Download and unpack the installation packages</title>
<p>Before you begin, you must download the required HP Helion OpenStack installation package(s):</p>
<ol>
<li> Download and extract the <codeph>cg-hlm.qcow2</codeph> file to the images folder:
                                                <codeph>/var/lib/libvirt/images</codeph>.</li>
<li> Download and extract the <codeph>cg-infra-playbooks.tar.gz.gpg</codeph> file to the
                                                <codeph>/root</codeph> directory.</li>
        <li> Decrypt and untar the PGP file using password <codeph>cghelion</codeph> when prompted.
                                        <codeblock> gpg -d cg-infra-playbooks.tar.gz.gpg | tar -xzvf </codeblock></li>
        <li> Create the <codeph>/root/cg/</codeph> directory</li>
<li>Copy the <codeph>cg-hos.tar.gz.gpg</codeph> to the <codeph>/root/cg/</codeph> directory.</li>
</ol>
</section>
        
<section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>
<xref href="carrier-grade-install-non-kvm.dita#topic10581">Deploying the Non-KVM Region</xref></p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
