<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4740">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Configuring NTP</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B,"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-NTP.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/ntp/--></p>
<p>This page provides detailed information on <xref type="section" href="#topic4740/client"
        >configuring HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade servers</xref> for Network Time Protocol
      (NTP) and <xref type="section" href="#topic4740/server">instlling an NTP server on the HLM
        host</xref>.</p>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade requires that all servers point to the same NTP server. You can
      use an external NTP server or configure the HLM host as a server.</p>
<p>
  <b>Notes:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>NTP clients should use only stratum 2 and higher servers (meaning stratum 1 or stratum 0).</li>
<li>All the Helion servers use UTC as a time zone.</li>
</ul>
<section id="server"> <title>Install an NTP server on the HLM host</title>
<p>To configure an NTP server, follow these steps:</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the HLM host.<codeblock><codeph>sudo su -
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Install the NTP package using the following
          command:<codeblock><codeph>sudo apt-get install ntp
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Add NTP servers to <codeph>/etc/ntp.conf</codeph>. The following example use servers from the
          NTP Pool Project:<codeblock><codeph>server ntp.ubuntu.com
server 127.127.1.0
</codeph></codeblock><p>
            <b>Note:</b> The NTP stratum must be numerically lower than 10 (meaning stratum 9,
            stratum 8, etc.) in order to use as a source. If one is not available, you may be able
            to <xref type="section" href="#topic4740/fudge">fudge one</xref>.</p></li>
<li>Configure system time zone using the <codeph>tzselect</codeph> command.<p>a. Change to the
  <codeph>/usr/bin/</codeph> directory.</p><p>b. Execute the <codeph>tzselect</codeph> command. The
            available time zones are listed.</p><p>c. Select from the listed time zones by entering
            a number at the promnpt.</p><p>The output should be placed in
              <codeph>/etc/profile</codeph> and executed on the command
          line.</p><codeblock><codeph>source /etc/profile
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Verify that your server is broadcasting using the <codeph>ntpq -p</codeph> command. You should
          see a message similar to the
            following:<codeblock><codeph>ntpq -p
remote  refid   st  t   when    poll    reach   delay   offset  jitter
==============================================================================
*ops-ae1ops-ntp0    209.51.161.238  2   u   242 1024    377 0.509   0.043   0.206
LOCAL(0)    .LOCL.  10  l   76h 64  0   0.000   0.000   0.000
</codeph></codeblock><p>You
            can now point clients to your NTP server</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="client"> <title>Configure all other servers as NTP clients</title>
<ol>
<li>SSH to the node you want to configure.</li>
<li>Add your NTP server IP to the clients <codeph>/etc/ntp.conf</codeph> file.</li>
<li>Configure system time zone using the <codeph>tzselect</codeph> command.<p>a. Change to the
            /usr/bin/` directory.</p><p>b. Execute the <codeph>tzselect</codeph> command. The
            available time zones are listed.</p><p>c. Select from the listed time zones by entering
            a number at the promnpt.</p><p>The output should be placed in
              <codeph>/etc/profile</codeph> and executed on the command
          line.</p><codeblock><codeph>source /etc/profile
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Restart the NTP service.<codeblock><codeph>service ntp restart
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Verify that you have a connection to the NTP
          server.<codeblock><codeph>ntpq -pd

1 packets reassembled into response
remote  refid   st  t   when    poll    reach   delay   offset  jitter
==============================================================================
2 packets reassembled into response
+ntp0 209.51.161.238    2   u   82  1024    377 0.286   0.117   0.349
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Verify that your server shows client
          connections.<codeblock><codeph>ntpdc -c monlist

ntpdc -c monlist
remote address  port    local address   count   m   ver rstr    avgint  lstint
===============================================================================
ntp0001.use 123 10.22.170.17    2365    4   4   1d0 1000    384
</codeph></codeblock></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="fudge"> <title>Fudging a stratum lower than 10</title>
<p>NTP uses a hierarchical, semi-layered system of time sources. Each level of this hierarchy is termed a <i>stratum</i> and is assigned a number starting with zero at the top. The number represents the distance from the reference clock and is used to prevent cyclical dependencies in the hierarchy.</p>
<p>The numerically lower the stratum value, the higher priority that clock has.</p>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade uses stratum 10. Using a numerically high stratum ensures that
        this is only used if all external clocks fail. This will mitigate skew until external clocks
        return to service.</p>
<p>If your NTP stratum is numerically less than 10, set up your host as the time source by fudging a stratum 10.</p>
<ol>
<li>Configure host as a time source.</li>
<li>Add the following to /etc/ntp.conf to force a stratum
          10.<codeblock><codeph>server 127.127.1.0
fudge 127.127.1.0 stratum 10
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Restart the NTP service<codeblock><codeph>service ntp restart
</codeph></codeblock></li>
</ol>
<p>Using <codeph>fudge</codeph> to configure the local clock as stratum 10 makes NTP use the local clock when no timeservers are available. The system will only use the local clock if your system cannot access the NTP server.</p>
<!--
## Troubleshooting ##

### Trouble synching ###

If your client (including your NTP server) has trouble syncing time, see [Troubleshooting NTP](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/ntp#synch).
-->
</section>
  <section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
    <p>
      <xref href="carrier-grade-install-non-kvm-GA.dita">Deploying the Non-KVM
        Region</xref>
    </p>
  </section>
  
  <section>
  <p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4740"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
