<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6730">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Installation Troubleshooting</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-hlm-troubleshoot.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/trouble/--></p>
<p>This installation troubleshooting guide is written for HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade installers who, during or after building the environment, find that the cloud environment does not work as expected. The HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade environment is not itself complex but it does include a sufficient number of components that isolating a fault can be challenging.</p>
<p>The goal of this guide is to help you to identify the problem or problems affecting your cloud installation and efficiently fix them.</p>
<section id="the-hp-helion-openstack-directory-does-not-get-copied"> <title>The HP Helion OpenStack(R) directory does not get copied</title>
<p>The <codeph>hnewcloud</codeph> command should copy the HP Helion OpenStack(R) directory to the <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;</codeph>folder.</p>
</section>
<section id="resolution"> <title>Resolution</title>
<p>Copy the <codeph>hnewcloud.sh</codeph> script to HLM node under <codeph>/opt/bin/hnewcloud.sh</codeph> before <codeph>hnewcloud</codeph> script is run.</p>
</section>
<section id="ldp-ccn-role-gets-stuck-when-you-run-hdeploy"> <title>LDP-CCN role gets stuck when you run hdeploy</title>
</section>
<section id="resolution-script"> <title>Resolution</title>
<p>Edit the <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible /roles/LDP-CCN/tasks/ldap.yml</codeph> file before running <codeph>hdeploy</codeph>.</p>
<p>Replace <codeph>apt-get install python-ldap</codeph> with <codeph>apt: name=python-ldap install_recommends=no state=latest force=yes</codeph>.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> All the files, except venom-patch.tar.gz, required for patching are attached to this page. venom-patch.tar.gz  can be found under</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>sftp 'cdl\USER'@15.242.209.8 
sftp&gt; cd cg-hos-builds/Patches/build-33/
sftp&gt; get venom-patch.tar.gz
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="troubleshooting"> <title>Troubleshooting</title>
</section>
<section id="the-hdeploy-script-fails-for-a-particular-role"> <title>The <codeph>hdeploy</codeph> script fails for a particular role.</title>
</section>
<section id="resolution-ansible"> <title>Resolution</title>
<p>
  <b>Notes:</b>
</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>* The Ansible playbook for the cloud are located under `~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/` on HLM node
* Roles which gets executed on particular tier (T1, T2, T3) are defined in `ccp-3-1-1-dcn-as.json`, which can be found under ~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;.
* Roles that get executed on Compute (CPN) are defined in `definition.json`.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Use the following steps to patch and rerun the role:</p>
<ol>
<li>From the console get the failed role name which is line above the first error line (in
            red)<p>TASK: [NOV-CMP | Add availability zone and host] ******************************
            changed: [MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM] failed: [MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0001-NETCLM] =&gt;
            {"failed": true}</p><p>msg: Exception: There was a conflict when trying to complete your
            request. (HTTP 409) (Request-ID: req-1d65aa9</p><p>In the highlighted section NOV-CMP is
            the role name MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM is the cloud name
            MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM indicates controller MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM indicates
            compute MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM indicates compute node 2
            MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N0002-NETCLM indicates CLM network</p><p>Additional tiers could
            be:</p><p>MYCLOUD-CCP-T1-NETCLM In DCN deployment this is DCN tier where the VSC is
            hosts. In OVS deployment this is Controller tier</p><p>MYCLOUD-CCP-T2-NETCLM In DCN
            deployment this is Controller tier. In OVS deployment this is tier does not
            exist</p><p>MYCLOUD-CCP-T3-NETCLM In DCN deployment this is VRS-G tier. In OVS
            deployment this is tier does not exist</p><p>MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-NETCLM In both DCN and OVS
            deployment this is a compute tier aka resource pool</p><p>Current execution sequence is:
            MYCLOUD-CCP-CPN-N000X-NETCLM MYCLOUD-CCP-T1-NETCLM MYCLOUD-CCP-T2-NETCLM
            MYCLOUD-CCP-T3-NETCLM</p><p>This sequence is defined in ~//clouds/
              <ph>/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/commit.yml</ph>
          </p><p>This example indicates that failure is on second compute node for NOV-CMP role.
            This role can be located under - ~/ <ph>/clouds/ <ph>/001/stage/ansible/roles/NOV-CMP
                (where all the roles reside)</ph>
            </ph>
          </p></li>
<li>If /NOV-CMP/ role needs to be rerun after patching, make a copy of existing role under
            <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/roles/, modify
            /NOV-CMP/</codeph>
          <p>Note that some of the tiers might have already been executed before compute</p><p>(In
            case of ovs its just controller tier [T1], In case of dcn cloud its dcn tier[T2] and vrg
            tier []). Hence we need not run the controller (dcn and vrgs in case of dcn cloud) roles
            again.</p></li>
<li>Comment the following lines in the build file which executes controller roles in
            c<codeph>ommit.yml</codeph>.<codeblock>
<codeph>#Cloud: orion (orion)
#Install the cloud
#include: build-CCP-T1.yml
#include: build-CCP-T2.yml
#include: build-CCP-T3.yml
#include: build-CCP-CPN.yml
</codeph>
</codeblock></li>
<li>Comment the following lines in the <codeph>build-CCP-CPN.yml</codeph>
            file.<codeblock>
<codeph># Install resource nodes "CPN" of control plane "CCP"
    hosts: ORION-CCP-CPN
    sudo: yes   
    roles:
#- Common
#- NTP-SVR
    NOV-CMP
    DCN-VRS
    DUM-BLS 
    LDP-CPN
</codeph>
</codeblock><p>At
            this point you have successfully commented all the roles in all the tiers that got
            exercised before NOV-CMP</p></li>
<li>Copy the patched <codeph>NOV-CMP</codeph> folder under
            <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/roles/</codeph>.</li>
<li>Rerun the <codeph>hdeploy &lt;cloud-name&gt;</codeph> command.<p>With this patch all the nodes
            on which NOV-CMP role gets executed should be refreshed.</p><p>
            <b>Note:</b> Not all the roles are idempotent. Which means they are not runnable. Hence
            only the idempotent roles would work with this approach.</p><p>The
              <codeph>build-CCP-*</codeph> and <codeph>commit.yml</codeph> also get copied under
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/</codeph>.</p><p>In
            such cases the <codeph>build-CCP-*</codeph> and <codeph>commit.yml</codeph> need to be
            changed in two
          locations:</p><codeblock>
<codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/

~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/
</codeph>
</codeblock></li>
<li>Patch the existing role which was deployed successfully.<p>a. Make a copy of desired role under
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/roles/</codeph>.</p><p>b,
            Copy the patch role under
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/roles/</codeph>.</p><p>c.
            Comment all the tiers in
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/commit.yml</codeph>
            except for patched role tier (all the tiers BEFORE and AFTER patched tier).</p><p>d.
            Comment all the roles, except for patched role, from build-CCP-* file under
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/</codeph>.</p><p>The
              <codeph>build-CCP-*</codeph> and <codeph>commit.yml</codeph> also gets copied under
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/</codeph>.</p><p>e.
            The <codeph>build-CCP-*</codeph> and <codeph>commit.yml</codeph> needs to be changed in
            tow
            locations:</p><codeblock>
<codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/top_level_playbooks/commit/
~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/
</codeph>
</codeblock><p>f.
            If the patched role needs some new variables to be added, this can be done by adding new
            variables to
              <codeph>~/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/clouds/&lt;cloud-name&gt;/001/stage/ansible/group_var/all</codeph>
            file.</p><p>g. Rerun <codeph>hdeploy &lt;cloud-name&gt;</codeph>.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic6730/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
