<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1925">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Beta: Installation
    Guide</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0 Beta: Installation Overivew</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <!--UNDER REVISION-->
      <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-overview.md-->
      <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/overview/--></p>
    <p>This document describes the process for installing HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
    <section id="about-the-installation">
      <title>About the installation</title>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation installs HP Helion Lifecycle Management
        VM, creates a base HP Helion OpenStack cloud, configures network virtualization through HP
        Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN), and deploys a carrier grade cloud.</p>
      <p>After installation, you can interact with the HP Helion OpenStack cloud using the <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-horizon-overview.dita"
          >Horizon graphical interface</xref> or using the CLIs of the respective <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita"
        >services</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="install-option">
      <title>Installation options</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade has two baremetal installation options depending on your
        system configuration. It allows you to manage the KVM and VMware ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/>
        hypervisors and provision virtual machines.</p>
      <p>You can find more information on the hypervisor options in the <xref
          href="carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485">Technical Overview</xref>.</p>
      <p id="components">The following table indicates the components required for each deployment
        type. If your deployment indicates Yes in a column, you must install that component. If a
        column is blank, you can disregard that component. <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
          id="table_iqg_gyd_xt">
          <tgroup cols="5">
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="newCol5" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Deployment</entry>
                <entry>All Deployments</entry>
                <entry>HP DCN</entry>
                <entry>VMware ESX</entry>
                <entry>Ironic Baremetal</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>Denver</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Tahoe</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Memphis</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Sacramento</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
    
    <p id="denver"><b>KVM Topology using the <i>denver</i> template</b></p>
      <p>If installing the <codeph>denver</codeph> template, you are installing the KVM region and
        HP Helion OpenStack AVS networking. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and are
        independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the installation, you will
        integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the <xref
          href="CGH-2-install-denver.dita#topic10581/storage">installation instructions</xref> for
        the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
    
    <p id="tahoe"><b>KVM with DCN Topology using the <i>tahoe</i> template</b></p>
      <p>If you are installing the <codeph>tahoe</codeph> template, you are installing the KVM
        region and HP DCN VRS networking. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install DCN, 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and
        are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the installation, you will
        integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the <xref
          href="CGH-2-install-tahoe.dita#topic10581/storage">installation instructions</xref> for
        the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>

    
    <p id="memphis"><b>KVM + ESX with DCN Topology using the <i>memphis</i> template</b></p>
      <p>If you are installing the <codeph>memphis</codeph> template, you are installing the KVM
        region and VMware ESX storage. The networking uses HP DCN VRS. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install DCN, ESX, and 3PAR and/or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack
        installation and are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the
        installation, you will integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the
          <xref href="CGH-2-install-memphis.dita#topic10581/storage">installation instructions</xref>
        for the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
       <p id="sacramento"><b>KVM + ESX + Ironic with DCN Topology using the <i>sacramento</i>
          template</b></p>
      <p>If you are installing the <codeph>sacramento</codeph> template, you are installing the KVM
        region, VMware ESX storage, and a baremetal region (controlled by OpenStack Ironic). The
        networking uses HP DCN VRS. </p>
      <p>You will need to perform tasks to integrate ESX and DCN with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
        Grade. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install DCN, ESX, and 3PAR and/or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack
        installation and are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the
        installation, you will integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See
        the <xref href="CGH-2-install-sacramento.dita#topic10581/backend">installation
          instructions</xref> for the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="nic"><title>Unbonded or Bonded NIC configuration</title>
      <p>During the installation, specific steps might be different, based on whether you are
        installing into a single NIC or bonded NIC environment. </p>
    </section>

    <section id="installation-process">
      <title>Installation process</title>
      <p>Use the following process to install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a baremetal
        environment.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Review the <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita">Technical
            Overview</xref> for information on the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade environment. <ul>
            <li>Review the Cloud Topologies to decide appropriate topology for your use case.</li>
            <li>Review the deployment architecture for different hypervisors</li>
            <li>Review the network architecture for networking needs</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Review the <xref href="carrier-grade-support-matrix2.dita#topic1773">Support
            Matrix</xref> to make sure your environment meets the minimum requirements.</li>
        <li> Perform any required or optional <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-prereqs.dita"
            >installation prerequisites</xref>. </li>
        <li>
          <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-network-prepare.dita"
            >Prepare the network for installation</xref>
        </li>
        <li>Install the cloud topologies: <ul>
            <li>KVM Deployment <p>In this cloud topology, the standard OpenStack services like
                Keystone, Glance, Cinder, Swift are installed in the non-KVM region first. Then the
                KVM region is installed. </p><ul>
                <li> Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581">Helion
                    Lifecycle Management and Installation Services</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-non-kvm.dita#topic10581">HPE
                    Helion OpenStack cloud</xref>. These components will be installed into what is
                  called the <i>Non-KVM region</i>.</li>
                <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581"
                    >Helion user interface</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the carrier grade cloud. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what
                  is called the <i>KVM region.</i></li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul><p>
            <ul id="ul_mzq_bgk_lt">
              <li>KVM with DCN Deployment <p>In this cloud topology, the DCN components are
                  installed along with standard services in the non-KVM region first. Then the KVM
                  region is installed.</p><ul id="ul_nzq_bgk_lt">
                  <li>Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581">Helion
                      Lifecycle Management and Installation Services</xref>.</li>
                  <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-non-kvm.dita#topic10581">HP
                      Helion OpenStack cloud and install the HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)
                      components</xref> into what is called the non-KVM region </li>
                  <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581"
                      >Helion user interface</xref>.</li>
                  <li>Configure <xref href="carrier-grade-install-config-dcn.dita#topic10581"
                      >required DCN components</xref>.</li>
                  <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-cloud.dita#topic1107"
                      >carrier grade cloud</xref>. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what is
                    called the <i>KVM region</i>
                  </li>
                </ul></li>
            </ul>
          </p><ul>
            <li>KVM + ESX Deployment<p>In this cloud topology, the components required to support
                ESX hypervisor are installed along with standard services in the non-KVM region
                first. Then the KVM region is installed.</p><ul>
                <li>Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581">Helion
                    Lifecycle Management and Installation Services</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-non-kvm.dita#topic10581">HP Helion
                    OpenStack cloud and install the HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)
                    components</xref>. You will also install the VMware ESX compute proxy. These
                  components will be installed into what is called the non-KVM region and connect to
                  the ESX cluster with DCN networking.</li>
                <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581"
                    >Helion user interface</xref>.</li>
                <li>Configure <xref href="carrier-grade-install-config-dcn.dita#topic10581">required
                    DCN components</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-cloud.dita#topic1107"
                    >carrier grade cloud</xref>. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what is
                  called the <i>KVM region</i>
                </li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="first-step">
      <title>First Step</title>
      <p>Perform the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-prereqs.dita#topic7148">prerequisite
          steps and one time setup</xref> on your KVM Host required to install HP Helion OpenStack
        Carrier Grade in a baremetal environment.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
