<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581cgink">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Deploying the Non-KVM
    Region</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
  <p>The first phase of the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation involves editing Ansible
      playbooks, which are files that contain scripts that execute required installation
      processes.</p>

<section id="prepare"> <title>Prepare the system for deployment</title>
<p>Use the following steps to prepare the server on which the HLM VM will be deployed (the HLM host):</p>
<ol>
        <li>Log into the HLM host using the default credentials</li>

  <li>Edit the <codeph>/root/infra-ansible-playbooks/group_vars/all</codeph> file for your
          environment. For information on each variable, refer to the comments in the file with each
          variable. <p>The <codeph>group_vars/all</codeph> file should appear similar to the
            following for a KVM + ESX
          deployment:</p><codeblock>
    ############################################# Variables for HLM  #################################################################
    #These variables are relevant in both All Virtual and BareMetal scenarios.
    
    #Set this to 1 if you will not deploy a dcn cloud via this HLM node and will deploy only ovs cloud
    ovs_cloud_only:  0
    
    #Set this to 'bm' if cloud is being deployed over baremetal.
    #Set this to 'av' if the cloud is all virtual
    cloud_type: 'bm'
    
    #These are hlm related variables that must be changed according to your Baremetal Env
    hlm_login_id:       root
    hlm_password:       cghelion
    
    #The following variables are for CLM network IP details for HLM
    hlm_clmstaticip:    10.20.x.x
    hlm_clmnetmask:     255.255.255.0
    hlm_clmgateway:     10.20.x.x
    
    #The variables starting with cobbler_ are inputs that are usually given to initcobbler.sh. Set accordingly.
    cobbler_pxestartip: 10.20.x.x
    cobbler_pxeendip:   10.20.x.x
    cobbler_pxestaticip: 10.20.x.x
    cobbler_pxenetmask: 255.255.255.0
    
    #Set the location of your images that will be used by libvirt
    imagelocation: /var/lib/libvirt/images
    
    #Set the location of your infra-ansible-playbooks
    ansible_dir: ~/infra-ansible-playbooks</codeblock></li>
  <li id="hosts">Check the <codeph>/root/infra-ansible-playbooks/hosts</codeph> file to enter the IP
          address of the <codeph>vibr0</codeph> interface in the <codeph>hlm_kvm_host</codeph>
          field, as shown in the following example. </li>
</ol>
<codeblock>  [hlm_kvm_host]
  192.168.122.1 </codeblock>
</section>

  <section id="next-step">
      <title>Next Step</title>
      <p>The next step involves <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581cgihv"
          >bootstrapping the HPE Helion Lifecycle Management virtual machine and installation
          services</xref>.</p>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
