<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4695">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Support Matrix for HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade: Support Matrix</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B,"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-support-matrix-dcn.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/support-matrix/dcn/--></p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4695/require">Infrastructure Requirements and Recommendations</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4695/hardware">Hardware and Software Requirements</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information on HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN), see the <xref href="http://h20565.www2.hp.com/portal/site/hpsc/template.PAGE/public/psi/manualsResults/?sp4ts.oid=7268885&amp;spf_p.tpst=psiContentResults&amp;spf_p.prp_psiContentResults=wsrp-navigationalState%3Daction%253Dmanualslist%257Ccontentid%253DGeneral-Reference%257Clang%253Den&amp;javax.portlet.begCacheTok=com.vignette.cachetoken&amp;javax.portlet.endCacheTok=com.vignette.cachetoken" scope="external" format="html" >HP Distributed Cloud Networking 3.0.R2 
Release Notes</xref>.</p>
<section id="require"> <title>HP DCN Infrastructure Requirements and Recommendations</title>
<!-- Taken from HP Distributed Cloud Networking 3.0.R2
Installation Guide -->
<p>In order to make use of the HP DCN, the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade environment must meet some key requirements as described in the following sections.</p>
</section>
<section id="ntp-infrastructure"> <title>NTP Infrastructure</title>
<p>Because HP VSP is a distributed system, it is important that the different elements have a reliable reference clock to ensure the messages exchanged between the elements have meaningful timestamps. HP VSP relies on each of the elements having clocks synchronized with
NTP.</p>
<p>The HP VSD and HP VRS applications rely on the NTP facilities provided by the host operating system. The HP VSC, which is based on HP DCN OS, has an NTP client.</p>
<p>HP recommends having at least three NTP reference clocks configured for each system.</p>
</section>
<section id="domain-name-system"> <title>Domain Name System</title>
<p>In scaled HP VSP deployments, the HP VSD functional elements can be distributed across machines into clusters of machines where the failover and load sharing mechanisms for the clusters rely on being referenced as a single DNS entity.</p>
</section>
<section id="certificate-authority"> <title>Certificate Authority</title>
<p>The northbound ReST API on HP VSD is accessed within an SSL session. The HP VSD is able to use a self-signed certificate, but having a certificate from a certificate authority will enable client applications to avoid processing security warnings about unrecognized certificate authorities.</p>
</section>
<section id="hardware"> <title>Hardware and Software Rerquirements</title>
<!-- From DCN 3.0.R2 Release Notes http://h20565.www2.hp.com/hpsc/doc/public/display?sp4ts.oid=7268885&docId=emr_na-c04495116&docLocale=en_US -->
</section>
<section id="hp-vsd-hardware-and-software-requirements"> <title>HP VSD Hardware and Software Requirements</title>
<p>The HP VSD software can run in one or more servers depending on performance and availability requirements. The following table describes the requirements for a single system server configuration. Contact HP for 
guidance on larger scale deployments.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Item</entry>
<entry>Requirements</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>Platform</entry>
    <entry>Physical machine or virtual machine</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Hypervisor</entry>
    <entry>KVM</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Installed Platform</entry>
    <entry>* Linux distribution: CentOS 6.5 (64-bit)
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->* RHEL Server 6.5</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>CPU</entry>
    <entry>Intel x86-64 processor with six or more logical cores, each with a speed of 2.6 GHz or higher.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>RAM</entry>
    <entry>24 GB or more</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Mass Storage</entry>
    <entry>100 GB for HP VSD software and supporting software packages. If VM statistics will be used, a separate partition or virtual disk is required to store the statistical data. Contact HP for 
details and recommended sizing based on the number of 
VMs and frequency of statistics collection.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
<entry>
NTP</entry>
<entry>The server must run NTP to ensure the event notifications passed between the DCN elements have proper timestamps.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="hp-vsc-hardware-and-software-requirements"> <title>HP VSC Hardware and Software Requirements</title>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
    <entry>Item</entry>
    <entry>Requirement</entry>
  </row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>Platform</entry>
    <entry>HP VSC must run on a dedicated hardware server as the only virtual machine process.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Hypervisor and Installed Platform</entry>
    <entry>* KVM on RHEL 6.5, CentOS 6.5</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>CPU</entry>
    <entry>HP VSC currently requires a processor from one of the following:
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->Any AMD Opteron or Intel E5/E7 series Xeon processor or better with:
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->* Four or more physical cores required
Recommended: processors with higher cores
Note: Hyperthreading must be disabled to achieve the 
best use of the physical cores.
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->* Higher L3 cache and higher clock speed versions 
achieve the best performance. </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Physical Memory</entry>
    <entry>8 GB of ECC memory with higher speed RAM (DDR3 133/1600) recommended. </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>HP VSC Virtual Machine Memory</entry>
    <entry>4 GB - Any memory beyond 4 GB will not be used by the HP VSC.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Ethernet Chipset</entry>
    <entry>Any Ethernet (1Gb/s minimum, 10Gb/s strongly recommended) NIC supported by the hypervisor (two physical NICs recommended).

HP VSC requires two emulated E1000 NICs to be provided 
by the hypervisor.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
Operating System</entry>
    <entry>Linux distributions:
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->* CentOS 6.5 (64-bit)
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->* RHEL Server 6.5 (2.6.32 kernel) (64-bit)

QEMU + KVM versions from the above distributions are 
supported.

Intel Extended Page Tables (EPT) disabled in the KVM kernel module.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>Mass Storage</entry>
    <entry>2 GB of available mass storage (CompactFlash, SSD or hard drive) for use by the HP VSC VM as emulated disks.</entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>NTP</entry>
    <entry>The server must run NTP to ensure the event notifications passed between the HP DCN elements have proper timestamps.</entry>
  </row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4695"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
