<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Deploying the ESX Compute Proxy</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade vCenter ESX compute proxy (compute proxy) is a driver
      that enables the Compute service to communicate with a VMware vCenter server managing one or
      more ESX hosts. The HP Helion OpenStack Compute Service (Nova) requires this driver to
      interface with VMware ESX hypervisor APIs.</p>
    <p>After installing and configuring the VMware ESX and vCenter Server, use the following
      instructions to install the compute proxy. The compute proxy is distributed as open virtual
      appliance (OVA).</p>
    <p>The ESX and vCenter server should be installed within the non-KVM region and attached to the
      CLM network, as shown in the <xref href="carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485"
        >Technical Overview</xref></p>
  <section><title>Dowloading the ESX Compute Proxy Template</title>
  <p>The required ESX Compute Center Proxy template is available for download from HDN.</p>
    <ol>
      
        <li>In a browser, navigate to <xref
          href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Home/Show"
          format="html" scope="external">Helion Download
          Network(HDN)</xref>. <ul id="ul_lvg_jb2_xs">
            <li>Click <b>Sign In</b> to log in using your
              account. </li>
            <li>After signing in, click the <b>Downloads</b>
              link in the menu on the left side of the
              page.</li>
            <li>On the <b>Downloads</b> page, locate <b>vCenter Proxy Appliance</b>.and click
                <b>Download</b>.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Download the <b id="productShow_appName">GPG keys to verify signature files</b>. This
          file is named <codeph>GPG-HPCSS-Public-Keys.tar</codeph>. Refer to the Prerequisites for
          information on <xref href="carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs-GA.dita#topic7148/verify"
            >verifying the download</xref>.</li>
        <li>Extract the <codeph>overcloud_vcenter_compute_proxy.ova</codeph> file to any local
          directory. Note the location of the extracted file.</li>
      </ol>
  </section>
    <section>
      <title>Deploy Compute Proxy template on ESX Host</title>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation process includes an open virtual
        appliance (OVA) file, called <codeph>overcloud_vcenter_compute_proxy.ova</codeph>, that you
        import into vCenter. You should have downloaded the template during the <xref
          href="carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs-GA.dita#topic7148/getinstall">Prerequisites</xref>.
        The compute proxy template needs to be available in the vCenter before the deploying the HP
        Helion OpenStack cloud (before you run <codeph>hprovision</codeph> script).</p>
      <p>To deploy the proxy:<ol id="ol_ezn_ybt_xs">
          <li>Launch the VMware vCenter client.</li>
          <li>Click <b>File > Deploy OVF Template</b>.</li>
          <li>In the Deploy OVF Template wizard, specify the location of the
              <codeph>overcloud_vcenter_compute_proxy.ova</codeph> file.</li>
          <li>Click <b>Next</b> and complete the wizard.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>It is not required by the cloud deployment for the proxy template to be powered on. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Integration with existing Cloud Framework</title>
      <p>The <codeph>hprovision</codeph> script has been extended to execute
          <codeph>hlm_provsionproxy</codeph> script to provision the compute proxy node(s). This
        script also appends the provisioned proxy nodes to <codeph>nodes.json</codeph>.</p>
      <p>Since the proxy nodes are available in <codeph>nodes.json</codeph>, they are recognized by
        the <codeph>hcfgproc</codeph> and required metadata is generated for these nodes. Further
          <codeph>hnetinit</codeph> sets the appropriate networking and updates hosts file on these
        nodes to be configured by the <codeph>hdeploy</codeph> process.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Modify esx.json</title>
      <p>When you provision HP Helion OpenStack during the installation, the
          <codeph>hprovision</codeph> script provisions the compute proxy based on the details
        specified in the <codeph>esx.json</codeph> file.</p>
      <p>See <xref href="carrier-grade-install-pb-kvm-esx-json.dita#topic4797">Sample esx.json
          file</xref> for details on modifying the esx.json file.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>The <codeph>hlm_provisionproxy</codeph> script uses <codeph>pyvmomi</codeph> library for
        cloning the Compute Proxy Template and doing the initial configuration on ESX Compute
        proxy.</p>
    </section>
    <p>Ones the <codeph>hprovision</codeph> script completes, compute-proxy nodes will be added to
        <codeph>nodes.json</codeph> along controllers and other cloud nodes:</p>
    <codeblock>
  {
    "product": {
      "version": 1
      },
  
    "servers": [
        {
          "failure-zone": "fz1",
          "model": "DL680",
          "node-type": "CCN-001-001",
          "pxe-ip-addr": "10.200.210.101",
          "pxe-mac-addr": "6C:3B:E5:B4:6E:D8",
          "vendor": "HP"
        },
         …
        {
            "failure-zone": "fz1",
            "model": "DL680",
            "node-type": "CPN-001-001",
            "pxe-ip-addr": "10.200.210.177",     >>>>>>>>> IP Address defined in esx.json
            "pxe-mac-addr": "6C:3B:E5:B4:2E:B8",
            "vendor": "HP"
          },
      }
</codeblock>
    <p>The <codeph>esx.json</codeph> will be populated with CLM network details from
        <codeph>environment.json</codeph>. Compute Proxy nodes will be assigned static ip based on
      the cidr calculation.</p>
    <codeblock>
{
        "product": {
            "version":       1
        },
        "property-groups": [
                  {
                "name": "esx",
                "properties":       {
                    "vcenter":       {
                        "ipaddress":       "10.200.216.211",
                        "username":       "root",
                        "password":       "vmware",
                        "port":       "443",
                        "domain":       "localhost.localdom"
                           },
                    "template":       {
                        "username":       "cghelion",
                        "password":       "cghelion",
                        "name":       "TEMPL-CPV6"
                    },
                          "network":
                    {
                              "name": "CLM-ALL"
    
         "tagid" : "1716"
                        "netmask" :           "255.255.255.0" 
    ...
    ]
                }
            }
              ]
    }
    </codeblock>
    <section> Modify environment.json
      <codeblock>
  {
      "name": "CPN",
      "interface-map": [
        {
          "name": "INTF0",
          "ethernet-port-map": {
          "interface-ports": [
            "eth0"
            ]
         },
        "logical-network-map": [
         {
            "name": "management",
            "ref": "ccn-INTF0-management"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
    
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Configure CLM network on Compute Proxy</title>
      <p><codeph>hnetinit</codeph> script configures compute proxy with the CLM IP generated by
        config processor (<codeph>hnetinit</codeph>).</p>
      <p>At this point we see following interfaces on compute proxy nodes:</p>
      <p><codeph>/etc/network/interface.d</codeph></p>
      <p><b>eth1.x.cfg</b> – This interface holds the temporary CLM IP used for provisioning and
        configuration</p>
      <p><b>eth0.x.cfg</b> – This sub interface holds the CLM IP allotted by config processor used
        during cloud deployment</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Configure nova-compute as proxy</title>
      <p>During the <codeph>hdeploy</codeph> process CPX-CFG role is responsible for making
        necessary changes to <codeph>nova.conf</codeph> file to make the nova-compute node behave as
        proxy.</p>
      <p>This role also deletes the temporary <codeph>eth1.x</codeph> interface on the proxy created
        during <codeph>hprovision</codeph> process.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
