<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1107">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Deploying the KVM Region</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>


 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-hlm-cloud.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/hlm-cloud/-->
<p>After the HLM VM is up and running and HP Helion OpenStack is installed, use the following steps
      to deploy the KVM region.</p>
  <section>
      <title>Bring Up Controller-0 in the KVM Region</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Make sure other servers to be used in KVM region are shutdown.</li>
        <li>Use the <codeph>HP-HCG-Server-host-installer-15.05-b10.iso</codeph> to boot the controller node
          <codeblock>mount HP-HCG-Server-host-installer-15.05-b10.iso</codeblock></li>
        <li>Follow the install wizard. Select the Graphics mode for the controller only. Do not
          select <codeph>Controller+Compute</codeph>.</li>
        <li>After the reboot, log in as user name <codeph>wrsroot</codeph> and password
            <codeph>wrsroot</codeph>. Make sure you change the password.</li>
        <li>Temporarily assign an IP address to the PXE NIC - eth0. Use the IP you have reserved for
          the KVM PXE. <codeblock>ip addr add &lt;CIDR> dev eth0
ifconfig eth0 up</codeblock></li>
        <li> Set the default gateway to the PXE network gateway
          <codeblock>route add default gw &lt;CIDR_gateway_IP&gt;</codeblock></li>
        <li>Copy the following files to the <codeph>/home/wrsroot/</codeph> directory of the
          controller-0:
          <ul><li>TS_15.05_PATCH_0001.patch  # HLM VM /root/cg-hlm/windriver-files</li>
           <li>TS_15.05_PATCH_0002.patch # HLM VM /root/cg-hlm/windriver-files</li>
           <li>TS_15.05_DESIGN_PATCH_HEAT.patch # HLM VM/root/cg-hlm/windriver-files</li>
           <li>TS_15.05_DESIGN_PATCH_HORIZON.patch # HLM VM /root/cg-hlm/windriver-files</li>
           <li>region_config   # HLM VM ~/&lt;cloud_name&gt;/clouds/build40/001/stage/windriver-config</li>
           <li>cakey.pem # HLM VM ~&lt;cloud_name&gt;/clouds/build40/001/stage/windriver-config</li>
           <li>helion_branding-v1.3.tgz   # HLM VM /root/cg-hlm/windriver-files</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Move the <codeph>helion_branding-v1.3.tgz</codeph> to <codeph>/opt/branding</codeph> on
          the controller-0 </li>
        <li>Apply the required patches on controller-0:
          <codeblock>sudo wrs-patch upload /home/wrsroot/TS_15.05_PATCH_0001.patch
sudo wrs-patch apply TS_15.05_PATCH_0001
sudo wrs-patch install-local
sudo reboot       </codeblock></li>
        <li>Install the KVM region coud: <codeblock>sudo config_region</codeblock> Ignore the
          message which displays during <codeph>config_region</codeph> process.
          <codeblock>Step 9 of 29 [####  ]dm-6 WRITE SAME failed. Manually zeroing.</codeblock></li>
        <li>After <codeph>controller-0</codeph> is deployed, deploy the remaining nodes as
            <codeph>controller-1</codeph> and <codeph>compute-'n'</codeph>.
          <pre>system host-add --hostname controller-1 --personality controller --mgmt_mac &lt;mgmt_mac&gt; --bm_mac &lt;bm_mac&gt; --bm_ip &lt;ilo_ip&gt; --bm_type ilo4 --bm_username &lt;ilo_user&gt; --bm_password &lt;ilo_password&gt;</pre><pre>system host-add --hostname &lt;unique-compute-name&gt; --personality compute --mgmt_mac &lt;mgmt_mac&gt; --mgmt_ip &lt;mgmt_ip&gt; --bm_mac &lt;ilo_mac&gt; --bm_ip &lt;ilo_ip&gt; --bm_type ilo4 --bm_username &lt;ilo_user&gt;  --bm_password &lt;ilo_password&gt;</pre></li>
        <li>While registering compute nodes, make sure you specify the <codeph>mgmt_ip</codeph>.
          This IP should from the KVM CLM range (refer to the <codeph>region_config</codeph> file)
          and must not overlap controller IPs. It is safe to start after a block of 10 IPs.</li>
        <li>Set the <codeph>controller-1</codeph> and <codeph>compute-0</codeph> to <codeph>One-time
            PXE boot from network</codeph>.</li>
        <li>PXE boot all the registered nodes.</li>
        <li><xref href="../AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita#topic1160"
            >Log in to the Horizon interface</xref> and monitor the status of nodes being PXE
          booted. After succesful PXE boot, Operational State as Disabled and Availability State as
          Online in the <b>Admin</b>, then <b>Inventory</b> page. <p><b>Note:</b>The Horizon
            Dashboard will be running on the first IP address of the CLM network range (refer to the
              <codeph>ip_start_address</codeph> value provided for the CLM network in the
              <codeph>definition.json</codeph> during the non-KVM Region
              deployment). </p><p>The log-in credentials for Horizon are as follows:
            <codeblock>username: admin 
password:  admin </codeblock></p><p><b>Important:</b> After
            logging in with the default password, make sure you change the password for the
              <codeph>admin</codeph> user. </p></li>
        <li>For each compute node in the inventory, do the following<ol id="ul_gss_srg_ms">
            <li>Create Infra interface. See <xref
                href="../AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-inventory-detail-interfaces.dita#topic6151"
              /> or <i>Interfaces</i> in the Administrtor Guide.</li>
            <li>Create a Provider Network. See <xref
                href="../AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.provider.dita#topic3878"
              /> or <i>Setting Up a VXLAN Provider Network</i> in the Administrator Guide.</li>
            <li>Create VLAN Ranges on the provider network using the <b>Create Segmentation
                Range</b> option. See <xref
                href="../AdminGuideNew/Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.admin.create.segment.dita#topic2171"
              />  or <i>Setting Up a VXLAN Provider Network</i> in the Administrator Guide.</li>
            <li><xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-network-interface.dita#topic1107">Create data
                interface.</xref>  See <i>Configuring Endpoint IP Addresses</i> in the Administrator
              Guide.</li>
          </ol></li>
        <li><xref
            href="../AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita#topic3241"
            >Unlock the compute nodes</xref>. Compute nodes will reboot. Keep polling the status on
          the inventory page to show <b>Available</b> and <b>Online</b>.</li>
        <li>Access the Horizon dashboard using the CAN network IP (HTTPS). By default, Horizon is
          restricted to access the CAN network using the CLM network as the default gateway. You can
          workaround this, use SSH to access each controller node and update the filters:
          <codeblock>echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/default/rp_filter
echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/rp_filter
echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/eth0.&lt;CAN_VLAN_ID&gt;/rp_filter
echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/eth0.&lt;CLM_VLAN_ID&gt;/rp_filter
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward </codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  
  <section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
    <p> Perform some required <xref href="carrier-grade-install-post-install.dita#topic1107"
          >post-installation tasks</xref>. </p>
  </section>
</body>
</topic>
