<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1925">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Installation Guide</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade 2.0: Installation Overivew</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <!--UNDER REVISION-->
      <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-overview.md-->
      <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/overview/--></p>
    <p>This document describes the process for installing HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a
      baremetal environment.</p>
    <section id="about-the-installation">
      <title>About the installation</title>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation installs HP Helion Lifecycle Management
        VM, creates a base HP Helion OpenStack cloud, configures network virtualization through HP
        Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN), and deploys a carrier grade cloud.</p>
      <p>After installation, you can interact with the HP Helion OpenStack cloud using the <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-horizon-overview.dita"
          >Horizon graphical interface</xref> or using the CLIs of the respective <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita"
        >services</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="install-option">
      <title>Installation options</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade has two baremetal installation options depending on your
        system configuration. It allows you to manage the KVM and VMware ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/>
        hypervisors and provision virtual machines.</p>
      <p>You can find more information on the hypervisor options in the <xref
          href="carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485">Technical Overview</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="kvm-Hypervisor">
      <title>KVM Topology</title>
      <p>If you install the KVM deployment (also called the <codeph>denver</codeph> region), you can
        integrate either HP Storevirtual (VSA) or HP StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM region.</p>
      <p>You must install 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and are
        independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the installation, you will
        integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the <xref
            href="carrier-grade-install-kvm.dita#topic10581/storage">installation
            instructions</xref> for the 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="esx-hypervisor">
      <title>KVM + ESX Topology</title>
      <p>If installing the KVM + ESX deployment (also called the <codeph>memphis</codeph> region),
        you will need to perform tasks to integrate ESX and DCN with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
        Grade. </p>
      <p>You can also integrate HP Storevirtual (VSA) or HP StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM
        region. </p>
      <p>You must install ESX, 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and
        are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. During the installation, you will
        integrate the storage into HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. See the <xref
          href="carrier-grade-install-kvm.dita#topic10581/storage">installation instructions</xref>
        for the ESX, 3PAR and/or VSA parameters you will need.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="nic"><title>Unbonded or Bonded NIC configuration</title>
      <p>During the installation, specific steps might be different, based on whether you are
        installing into a single NIC or bonded NIC environment. </p>
    </section>

    <section id="installation-process">
      <title>Installation process</title>
      <p>Use the following process to install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a baremetal
        environment.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Review the <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita">Technical
            Overview</xref> for information on the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade environment. <ul>
            <li>Review the Cloud Topologies to decide appropriate topology for your use case.</li>
            <li>Review the deployment architecture for different hypervisors</li>
            <li>Review the network architecture for networking needs</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Review the <xref href="carrier-grade-support-matrix2.dita#topic1773">Support
            Matrix</xref> to make sure your environment meets the minimum requirements.</li>
        <li> Perform any required or optional <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs-GA.dita"
            >installation prerequisites</xref>. </li>
        <li>
          <xref
            href="../../CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-network-prepare-GA.dita"
            >Prepare the network for installation</xref>
        </li>
        <li>Install the cloud topologies: <ul>
            <li>KVM Cloud <p>In this cloud topology, the standard OpenStack services like Keystone,
                Glance, Cinder, Swift are installed in the non-KVM region first. Then the KVM region
                is installed. </p><ul>
                <li> Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581">Helion
                    Lifecycle Management and Installation Services</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm.dita#topic10581">HP Helion
                    OpenStack cloud</xref>. These components will be installed into what is called
                  the <i>Non-KVM region</i>.</li>
                <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581"
                    >Helion user interface</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the carrier grade cloud. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what
                  is called the <i>KVM region.</i></li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul><ul>
            <li>KVM + ESX Cloud <p>In this cloud topology, the components required to support ESX
                hypervisor are installed along with standard services in the non-KVM region first.
                Then the KVM region is installed.</p><ul>
                <li>Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-hlm-vm.dita#topic10581">Helion
                    Lifecycle Management and Installation Services</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-esx-GA.dita#topic10581">the HP
                    Helion OpenStack cloud and install the HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)
                    components</xref>. You will also install the VMware ESX compute proxy. These
                  components will be installed into what is called the Non-KVM region and connect to
                  the ESX cluster with DCN networking.</li>
                <li>Launch the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-launch-horizon.dita#topic10581"
                    >Helion user interface</xref>.</li>
                <li>Configure <xref href="carrier-grade-install-config-dcn.dita#topic10581">required
                    DCN components</xref>.</li>
                <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-cloud-GA.dita#topic1107"
                    >carrier grade cloud</xref>. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what is
                  called the <i>KVM region</i>
                </li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="first-step">
      <title>First Step</title>
      <p>Perform the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs-GA.dita#topic7148">prerequisite
          steps and one time setup</xref> on your HLM host required to install HP Helion OpenStack
        Carrier Grade in a baremetal environment.</p>
      <!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
