<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1925">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Installation
    Guide</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0: Installation Overivew</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The HP Helion OpenStack deployment requires several JSON files.</p>
    <section>
      <p>Edit the
      <codeph>node-provision.json</codeph> file to change only the following fields:<table
        id="table_ycw_qrn_xs">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colsep="1" rowsep="1">Field</entry>
              <entry colsep="1" rowsep="1">Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Pxe-mac-address</entry>
              <entry>MAC address of the interface you want to PXE boot onto. This is not same as
                iLO MAC address.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>pm_ip</entry>
              <entry>Power management IP (iLO ip)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>pm_user</entry>
              <entry>Power management user (iLO username)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>pm_pass</entry>
              <entry>Power management password (iLO password)</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>failure_zone, vendor, model, os_partition_size, data_partition_size</entry>
              <entry>Enter the same value as for these fields an in the
                <codeph>nodes.json</codeph> file used during cloud deployment</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table></p>
        <p>To see a sample <codeph>node-provision.json</codeph> file, see<xref
        href="carrier-grade-install-pb-kvm-only-json.dita">Sample JSON File for the
        HLM Virtual Machine Installation</xref>. </p>
    
    <p>Modify the <codeph>environment.json</codeph> file to configure the VLANs and network
      addresses as appropriate for your environment. Set the following for the CLM, CAN, and BLS
      network:<codeblock>"cidr": 
        "start-address": </codeblock> The three controller nodes
      should have CLM, CAN, EXT, BLS on eth0 and TUL on eth1. <!--Hiding for RC0 
              <p>The two compute nodes should have CLM, EXT, BLS on eth0 and TUL on eth1.</p>
           -->
    </p>
      <p>
        <b>Example:</b>
      </p><p><codeblock>{
        "product": {
        "version": 1
        },
        
        "node-type": [
        {
        "name": "CCN",
        "interface-map": [
        {
        "name": "INTF0",
        "ethernet-port-map": {
        "interface-ports": [ "eth0" ]
        },
        "logical-network-map": [
        {
        "name": "CLM",
        "type": "vlan",
        "segment-id": "502",
        "network-address": {
        "cidr": "10.50.2.0/24",
        "start-address": "10.50.2.10",
        "gateway": "10.50.2.1"
        }
        },
        {
        "name": "CAN",
        "type": "vlan",
        "segment-id": "504",
        "network-address": {
        "cidr": "10.50.4.0/24",
        "start-address": "10.50.4.10"
        }
        },
        {
        "name": "BLS",
        "type": "vlan",
        "segment-id": "76",
        "network-address": {
        "cidr": "172.16.76.0/19",
        "start-address": "172.16.76.10"
        }
        }
        ]
        }
        ]
        }
        ]
        }</codeblock>
        <b>NOTE:</b> The Helion Configuration Processor assigns the first address of the CLM
        address range to itself for serving python and debian repositories. Make sure that you
        set the first IP address of the CLM range for the eth2 (CLM) address of the HLM
        host.</p>
    
    <p>Modify the <codeph>definition.json</codeph> file: </p>
      <ol>
      <li>Set the number of compute systems to 2.
        <codeblock>"count": 2, //number of computes in the resource pool</codeblock></li>
      <li>Update the <codeph>ansible-vars</codeph> section with all the information based on
        your setup.</li>
      <li>Make sure you have two NTP entries in the <codeph>upstream_ntp_servers</codeph>
        fields in the <codeph>definition.json</codeph> file as seen in the following example.
        If you have only one NTP server in your environment, specify the same NTP server
        twice. Example:
        <codeblock>{
          "product": {
          "version": 1
          },
          
          "cloud": {
          "name": "b44tb4",
          "nickname": "b44tb4",
          "server-config": "nodes.json",
          "environment": "environment.json",
          "network-config": ".hos/lnet-control-data.json"
          },
          
          "failure-zones": [
          {
          "name": "fz1"
          },
          {
          "name": "fz2"
          },
          {
          "name": "fz3"
          }
          ],
          
          "control-planes": [
          {
          "file": ".hos/ccp-1x3-ss.json",
          "resource-nodes": []
          }
          ],
          
          "ansible-vars": {
          "dns_address": "10.1.2.44",
          "dns_domain_name": "helion.cg",
          "ldap_url": "10.1.2.44",
          "ldap_username": "admin",
          "ldap_password": "admin",
          "ldap_domain": "dc=helioncg,dc=local",
          "ldap_ou": "CGTestUsers",
          "ldap_nova_password": "nova",
          "ldap_nova_user": "nova",
          "ldap_neutron_password": "neutron",
          "ldap_neutron_user": "neutron",
          "ldap_cinder_password": "cinder",
          "ldap_cinder_user": "cinder",
          "ldap_glance_password": "glance",
          "ldap_glance_user": "glance",
          "ldap_enabled": 1,
          "upstream_ntp_servers": [
          "10.1.2.44",
          "16.110.135.123",
          "2.debian.pool.ntp.org"
          ],
          "ssl_cert_file": "ca.crt",
          "ssl_key_file": "cakey.pem",
          "ssl_passphrase": "cghelion"
          },
          
          "wr-vars": {
          "database_storage": 50,
          "backup_storage": 300,
          "image_storage": 250,
          "region_name": "RegionOne",
          "logical_interface": [
          {
          "lag_interface": "N",
          "interface_mtu": 1500,
          "interface_ports": [
          "eth0"
          ],
          "network": [
          {
          "ip_start_address": "10.50.2.51",
          "ip_end_address": "10.50.2.99",
          "name": "CLM"
          },
          {
          "ip_start_address": "172.16.76.150",
          "ip_end_address": "172.16.76.199",
          "name": "BLS"
          },
          {
          "ip_start_address": "10.50.4.51",
          "ip_end_address": "10.50.4.99",
          "gateway": "10.50.4.1",
          "name": "CAN"
          }
          ]
          }
          ],
          "pxeboot_cidr": "10.50.1.0/24",
          "license_file_name": "license.lic"
          }
          }
        </codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </section>    

    <section id="verify-json">
      <title>Verify the JSON files</title>
      <p>After editing the JSON files, validate each JSON file to make sure there are no syntax
        errors using the tool of your preference. For example, using the Python json.tool: </p>
      <codeblock>python -m json.tool &lt;filename>.json</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
