<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1107">
  <title>Attaching to Networks Using an Ethernet Interface</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B,"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
  <body>
        <p>When a compute or storage node is added to HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade and
          initialized, Ethernet interfaces are created automatically for each physical
          port detected.</p>  
        <p>For a network that uses Ethernet interfaces, you can edit an
          existing Ethernet interface on the node to attach it, as described in this
          topic. </p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="../AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita#topic1160"
        >Log in to the Horizon interface</xref>.</li>  
    <li>Open the <b>Inventory Detail</b> page for the host. <ol>
          <li>On the <b>Admin</b> pane of the web administration interface, in the <b>System
              Panel</b> section, select <b>Inventory</b>.</li>
          <li>Select the <b>Hosts</b> tab, and then in the <b>Host Name</b> column, click the name
            of the host.</li>
        </ol></li>
      <li>Select the <b>Interfaces</b> tab.</li>
      <li>Click <b>Edit Interface</b> for the interface you want to attach to a network. <p>For an
            <b>Ethernet</b> interface, the <b>Port</b> is already selected.</p></li>
      <li>Select the type of network for the interface. <ul>
          <li><b>Interface Name</b>. A name used to identify the interface.</li>
          <li><b>Network Type</b>. The type of network to which the interface is attached.
                <p><b>Note:</b> This selection supports multiple network types on the same logical
              interface. HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade also supports multiple network types on
              the same physical interface, using VLAN interfaces.</p><p>You can select multiple
              check boxes, but the only valid multiple selection is data in addition to either
                <codeph>mgmt</codeph> or infra on the interface connected to the management or
              infrastructure network. Depending on the interface, the check box options may include: <ul>
                <li>none - Clears the Network Type setting.</li>
                <li>infra - Attaches the interface to an infrastructure network. <p>When a compute
                    or storage node is added to HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade, an interface must
                    be attached to the infrastructure network before the node can be unlocked. You
                    can edit the infrastructure interface to add a data network and provider
                    network. This allows both infrastructure and data traffic to be carried on the
                    interface.</p></li>
                <li>oam - Attaches the interface to the OAM network. <p>The OAM network is used by
                    controller nodes for administrator remote access. It is not applicable to
                    compute or storage nodes.</p></li>
                <li>mgmt - Attaches the interface to the management network. <p>When a compute or
                    storage node is added to HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade, the interface used
                    for PXE boot is assigned automatically to the management network. In the
                    settings for this interface, mgmt is already selected. For other interfaces,
                    this selection is not used. You can edit the management interface to add a data
                    network and provider network. This allows both management and data traffic to be
                    carried on the interface.</p></li>
                <li>pci-passthrough - Provides for a direct connection to physical interface
                  hardware and the attached provider network from a virtual machine. A single VM can
                  directly access the physical interface. For more information, see the HP Helion
                  OpenStack Carrier Grade Administration Guide: PCI Passthrough Ethernet
                  Devices.</li>
                <li>data - Attaches the interface to a provider network. <p>You can add a data
                    interface to a management or infrastructure interface by editing the interface
                    and selecting data in addition to mgmt or infra.</p></li>
                <li>pci-sriov - Provides for a direct connection to a virtual unit of physical
                  interface hardware, and the attached provider network, from a virtual machine.
                  Multiple VMs can directly access and share the same physical interface.</li>
              </ul></p></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Click <b>Save</b> to save your changes and close the dialog box.</li>
      <li>Complete the required information for the type of interface.
        <p>Shown only when the Network Type is set to mgmt, oam, data, or infra) The type of interface (Ethernet,
          Aggregated Ethernet, or VLAN.</p>
        <ul>  
          <li>Aggregated Ethernet - Mode. The operational mode for link aggregation (aggregated ethernet network type only)</li> 
          <li>Aggregated Ethernet - Tx Policy. The transmit policy for link
            aggregation (aggregated ethernet network type only).</li> 
          <li> Vlan ID. A unique VLAN identifier for the network (vlan type only).</li>
          <li>Port(s). The physical port or ports used for the interface.</li>
          <li>Provider Networks. The available provider networks. To attach the interface to a provider network, 
            select the provider network (data, pci-passthrough, or pci-sriov network types only).
            <p>Note:
              You cannot attach to a VLAN provider network using a VLAN data interface.</p></li>
          <li>MTU. The maximum transmission unit for the interface.</li>
          <li>IPv4 Addressing Mode. The method for assigning an IP address to the interface
            for use with VXLAN networks (data network types only). 
          <p>The available options are static or disabled:</p>
            <ul>
                  <li>Disabled - Do not assign an IPv4 address.</li>
                  <li>Static - Use a static IPv4 address. </li>
                   <li>IPv6 Addressing Mode. The method for assigning an IP address to the interface
              for use with VXLAN networks (data network types only).</li></ul>
           <ul>
                  <li>Disabled - Do not assign an IPv6 address.</li>
                  <li>Static - Use a static IPv6 address.</li>
                  <li>Automatic Assignment - Use an automatically assigned IPv6 address.</li>
                  <li>Link Local - Use a link local IPv6 address.</li></ul></li>
          <li>Virtual Functions - The number of virtual interfaces to use (pci-sriov network types only).</li>
          <li>Maximum Virtual Functions - The maximum number of virtual interfaces available (pci-sriov network type only).</li>

    </ul></li></ol>
    <p>The interface is attached to the network.</p>


</body>
</topic>
