<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1925">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1 RC0: Installation Guide</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade 1.1: Installation Overivew</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/pb/overview/--></p>
<p>This document describes the process for installing HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a
      baremetal environment.</p>
<section id="about-the-installation"> <title>About the installation</title>
<p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation installs HP Helion Lifecycle Management, creates a base HP Helion OpenStack cloud, <!--configures network virtualization through HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN),--> and deploys 
  a carrier grade cloud.</p>
<p>After installation, you can interact with the HP Helion OpenStack cloud using the 
        <xref href="../ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-horizon-overview.dita#topic1518"
          >Horizon graphical interface</xref> or using the CLIs of the respective <xref
          href="../Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita#topic4220">Services</xref>.</p>
</section>
  <section id="install-option"> <title>Installation options</title>
    <p>HP Helion OpenStack is provided with two baremetal installation options depending on your system configuration.  It allows you to manage the KVM and ESX hypervisors and provision virtual machines.</p>
    <p>You can find more information on the hypervisor options in the Technical Overview.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="kvm-Hypervisor">
      <title>KVM Hypervisor</title>
      <p>Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) is a virtualization infrastructure for the Linux kernel,
        which turns it into a hypervisor. KVM requires a processor with hardware virtualization
        extension.</p>
      <title>Installation process</title>
      <p>Use the following process to install HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade in a baremetal
        environment.</p>
      <ol id="ol_nnt_bfh_ts">
        <li>Review the
          <xref href="carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485">Technical Overview</xref> for
          information on the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade environment.</li>
        <li>Reviwe the <xref href="carrier-grade-technical-specs.dita#topic3485">Technical
            Specifications</xref></li>
        <li>Review the <xref href="carrier-grade-support-matrix2.dita#topic1773">Support
            Matrix</xref> to make sure your environment meets the minimum requirements.</li>
        <li> Perform any required or optional <xref
            href="carrier-grade-install-pb-prereqs.dita#topic7148">installation
          prerequisites</xref>. </li>
        <li>
          <xref href="carrier-grade-install-pb-network-prepare.dita#topic7646">Prepare the network
            for installation</xref>
        </li>
        <li> Install the HLM and the HP Helion OpenStack environments. These components will be
          installed into what is called the <i>Non-KVM region</i>.</li>
        <li>Install the <xref href="carrier-grade-install-kvm-cloud-rc0.dita#topic1107">carrier
            grade cloud</xref>. The carrier grade cloud is deployed into what is called the <i>KVM
            region</i></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  
<section id="first-step"> <title>First Step</title>
  <p>Before you start, learn about the HP Helion Carrier Grade environment. Review the <xref
          href="carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485"/>.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
