<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_l1p_vpy_jt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Managing Cinder Volume and Backup Services</title>
  <body><!--Needs Work; fnf edit 10/27; intro text to first procedure needs clarifying-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>Due to the single threading required in both <codeph>cinder-volume</codeph> and the drivers,
      the Cinder volume service is run as a singleton in the control plane.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Prerequisite</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> cloud must be successfully deployed. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Migrating the Cinder Volume and Backup Services</title>
      <p>Due to the single threading required in both <codeph>cinder-volume</codeph> and the
        drivers, and because Cinder backups have a dependency on <codeph>cinder-volume</codeph>, the
        Cinder volume and backup services are started on one controller node at a time. By default,
        these services are started on the first node in the Cinder volume and backup hostgroup. If
        needed, the volume and backup services can be migrated to a different node in the hostgroup.
        The following steps describe how to migrate the services to a specified host.<ol
          id="ol_mmx_mkb_kt">
          <li>Get the hostname of the node Cinder volume and backup are to be migrated to. <p>For
              example: <codeblock>$ hostname
padawan-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>Run the <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook specifying the node to
            migrate to in the <codeph>migrate_host</codeph>
            argument:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible 
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-migrate-volume.yml --extra-vars "migrate_host=padawan-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt"</codeblock>After
            successfully running the <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook, the Cinder
            volume and backup services should be running on the specified node. For example:
              <codeph>padawan-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt</codeph>. <p>If the original node where the services
              were running is restarted, the Cinder volume and backup services will not restart on
              this node. For example, they will not start on <codeph>
                padawan-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt</codeph>. To get the Cinder volume and backup services
              running again on <codeph>padawan-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt</codeph>, run the
                <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook again by setting the
                <codeph>migrate_host</codeph> value to
            <codeph>padawan-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt</codeph>.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Managing Cinder Volume and Backup Services During a Node Reboot </title>
      <p>If the controller node is running Cinder volume and backup reboots, perform the following
        steps: <ol id="ol_o3k_1ff_pt">
          <li>Run the <codeph>hlm-start.yml</codeph> playbook on the node that has just rebooted
            using the <codeph>--limit &lt;hostname></codeph> option. <p>For example:
            </p><codeblock> cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
 ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml --limit padawan-ccp-c1-m1-mgmt </codeblock></li>
          <li>Migrate the Cinder volume and backup services using the
              <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook.<p>The node to migrate to may be
              the node that has just rebooted, or it can be one of the other nodes in the Cinder
              volume hostgroup. </p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Managing Cinder Volume and Backup Services During a Node Replacement</title>
      <p>If the controller node running Cinder volume and backup is going to be replaced with a new
        node, perform the following steps: <ol id="ol_b1c_ngf_pt">
          <li>Migrate the Cinder volume and backup services to another controller node using the
              <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook.</li>
          <li>For control plane nodes, follow the steps in <xref
              href="../operations/replace_controller.dita#topic_ijj_45j_nt"/>. </li>
          <li>Run the <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook again to ensure the new
            node has an up-to-date view of the volume service location. <p>When running
                <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph>, the volume service can optionally be
              migrated on to the new node or on to one of the other nodes in the Cinder volume
              hostgroup.</p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
