---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/python/django/
test: "Deploying Django applications"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->
# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Deploying Django applications


Your app needs a top-level *wsgi.py* file with a global variable named
`application` that refers to your Django WSGI
application. The file should already exist in the Django project,
although a copy of it needs to be in the root directory in order for
Application Lifecycle Service to recognize it.

    $ django-admin.py startproject dj14
    $ cd dj14
    $ cp dj14/wsgi.py wsgi.py

Typically, the *wsgi.py* file is just three lines of code:

    import os
    import django.core.handlers.wsgi
    application = django.core.handlers.wsgi.WSGIHandler()

Your project must also have a *requirements.txt* file containing at
least the `django` project:

    $ cat requirements.txt
    django==1.4
    mysql-python

Configuring the Database[](#configuring-database "Permalink to this headline")
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
See [*Using Configured Database Services*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/services/data-services/#database-accessing) for more information on connecting with database services.

1. You must modify the `DATABASES` variable of your project's *settings.py* as shown below to detect the database service provisioned by helion:

        import urlparse
        DATABASES = {}
        if 'DATABASE_URL' in os.environ:
                url = urlparse.urlparse(os.environ['DATABASE_URL'])
                DATABASES['default'] = {
                        'NAME': url.path[1:],
                        'USER': url.username,
                        'PASSWORD': url.password,
                        'HOST': url.hostname,
                        'PORT': url.port,
                        }
                if url.scheme == 'postgres':
                        DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.postgresql_psycopg2'
                elif url.scheme == 'mysql':
                        DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.mysql'
        else:
                DATABASES['default'] = {
                        'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
                        'NAME': 'dev.db',
                        'USER': '',
                        'PASSWORD': '',
                        'HOST': '', # Set to empty string for localhost.
                        'PORT': '', # Set to empty string for default.
                        }



    **Note**: In the future, this may be automatically written to *local\_settings.py* (similar to ep.io and others)

2.  Then add a new dependency to *requirements.txt*:

        $ echo 'mysql-python' >> requirements.txt

### Initializing database[](#initializing-database "Permalink to this headline")

Run the `syncdb` command to initialize the database
tables:

    $ helion run <appname> python manage.py syncdb

If you use a data migration library such as
[South](http://south.aeracode.org/), also run:

    $ helion run <appname> python manage.py migrate

Configuring static media[](#configuring-static-media "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are various ways to serve static files for a Django application. While Option \#1 is the most recommended for production deployments, option \#3 is the simplest for non-production/development/test/QA deployments.

1.  Directly serve static files with uWSGI. See [*Serving static files with uWSGI*](index.html#uwsgi-python-static-files) for details. or:
2.  Use `django.contrib.staticfiles`, which is
    included by default in Django 1.3. Read the [Django
    documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.3/howto/static-files/#using-django-contrib-staticfiles)
    to understand the steps involved, or take a look at [this
    commit](https://github.com/ActiveState/stackato-samples/commit/59ec0791)
    in the django-gtd sample app. or:
3.  Set `DEBUG=True` in settings.py. This is not
    recommended for production applications.

Configuring project location[](#configuring-project-location "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your project's *settings.py* may not always reside at the root directory. Furthermore, you may want to extend
`sys.path` to point to certain project sub-directories.

To persist such environment changes (across wsgi.py, settings.py, manage.py, etc.), add the following to manifest.yml:

    env:
      DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE: myproject.settings
      PYTHONPATH: myproject

This assumes that your Django project lives under the *myproject/* sub-directory.