<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1681">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1: Creating Externally Available Networks</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.admin.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/external/create/--></p>
<p>A network is a pluggable, scalable and API-driven system for managing networks and IP addresses.</p>
<p>A non-admin user or admin user can <xref type="section" href="#topic1681/createnet">create</xref> and <xref type="section" href="#topic1681/deletenet">delete</xref> networks as needed.</p>
<section id="createnet"> <title>Create an externally available network</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Networks</b> link on the <b>Project</b> dashboard <b>Network</b> panel.</p>

<p>The network(s) for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Network</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Network</b> tab:</p>

<p>a. Enter a name for the network.</p>

<p>b. Leave <b>Admin State</b> selected to launch the network in the enabled state or clear the field to disable the new network.</p>

<p>c. Determine if the network is to be available in all projects in the domain or only the selected project:</p>

<p>d. Select <b>Shared</b> to make the network available in all projects.</p>

<p>e. Leave the <b>Shared</b> option clear to limit the network to the selected project.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Determine if the network is to be available externally or only internally:</p>

<p>a. Select <b>External Network</b> to make the network an externally accessible.</p>

<p>b. Leave the <b>External Network</b> option clear to make the network internal, only accessible from the external network through a network router.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Network</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>To configure a subnet and ports for the network, see:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.subnet.dita" >Add, Remove, or Modify a subnet</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.ports.dita" >Create, Modify, or Delete a port</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1681"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
