---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Adding and Removing Subnets"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/subnet/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a></p> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Adding and Removing Subnets

When a [network is created](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/create/), a subnet (short for *subnetwork*) can be assigned upon creation. However, you might need to add a subnet to a network at a later time.

A subnet is a logically visible subdivision of a network. A subnet enables you to group instances logically, while maintaining a single network address to connect to the Internet.

An admin user can create and delete subnets as needed. 

	**Note:** Before you delete a subnet, you must first [delete all ports](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/ports/) associated with the subnet.

### Add a subnet

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Networks** link on the **Admin** dashboard **System** panel.

	The network(s) in the domain appear. 

3. Click the name of the network you want to work with.

4. On the **Network Detail** page click **Create Subnet**.

5. On the **Subnet** tab of the **Create Network** screen:

	a. Enter the subnet name.</li>

	b. Enter a network address range for the subnet in CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) format in the **Network Address** field, for example: 192.168.0.0/24.</li>

	c. Select IPv4 or IPv6, as appropriate, in the IP Version field.</li>

	d. Enter a gateway IP address from the subnet or leave the **Gateway IP** field blank to use the default value for the gateway IP address; for example, 192.168.0.1 for 192.168.0.0/24.</li>

	e. Leave **Disable Gateway** clear to enable the default gateway for this network, or select **Disable Gateway** to create the network with no default gateway.</li>

6. Click Next.

7. On the Subnet Details tab:

	a Clear the **Enable DHCP** option, as needed, to not use the network as a DCHP. DHCP is enabled by default. If enabled, the subnet will serve as your DHCP server. Instances associated with the subnet will be assigned an IP address from this pool. .</li>

	b. Optionally, enter the starting and ending IP addresses you want for your DHCP allocation pool in the **Allocation Pools** field, in the format IP*ADDR,IP*ADDR. For example: 192.168.1.10,192.168.1.120. By deafult, the server has an application pool starting with 10.0.0.0/24.	</li>

	c. Optionally, enter the IP Address of your subnet in the **DNS Name Servers** field. If blank, your subnet will default to using HP's internal DNS which uses DNSMASQ.</li>

	d. Optionally, enter the Destination CIDR and Next Hop for your subnet in the **Host Routes** field to create host routes.</li>

8. Click **Create**.  

### Delete a subnet ### {#deleteport}

Before you delete a subnet, you must first [delete all ports](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/ports/) associated with the subnet.

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Networks** link on the **Admin** dashboard **System** panel.

3. The network(s) for the selected project appear. 

4. Click the name of the network you want to work with.

5. On the **Network Detail** page, for the subnet you want to delete, click **More &gt; Delete Subnet**.

6. In the confirmation screen, click **Delete Subnet**.  

	A message appears indicating if the subnet was deleted successfully.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
