<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3262">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Adding and Removing Subnets</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.subnet.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/subnet/--></p>
<p>When a <xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Networks/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.create.dita" >network is created</xref>, a subnet (short for <i>subnetwork</i>) can be assigned upon creation. However, you might need to add a subnet to a network at a later time.</p>
<p>A subnet is a logically visible subdivision of a network. A subnet enables you to group instances logically, while maintaining a single network address to connect to the Internet.</p>
<p>An admin user can create and delete subnets as needed.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>**Note:** Before you delete a subnet, you must first [delete all ports](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/ports/) associated with the subnet.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<section id="add-a-subnet"> <title>Add a subnet</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Networks</b> link on the <b>Admin</b> dashboard <b>System</b> panel.</p>

<p>The network(s) in the domain appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the name of the network you want to work with.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Network Detail</b> page click <b>Create Subnet</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Subnet</b> tab of the <b>Create Network</b> screen:</p>

<p>a. Enter the subnet name.</p>

<p>b. Enter a network address range for the subnet in CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing) format in the <b>Network Address</b> field, for example: 192.168.0.0/24.</p>

<p>c. Select IPv4 or IPv6, as appropriate, in the IP Version field.</p>

<p>d. Enter a gateway IP address from the subnet or leave the <b>Gateway IP</b> field blank to use the default value for the gateway IP address; for example, 192.168.0.1 for 192.168.0.0/24.</p>

<p>e. Leave <b>Disable Gateway</b> clear to enable the default gateway for this network, or select <b>Disable Gateway</b> to create the network with no default gateway.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click Next.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Subnet Details tab:</p>

<p>a Clear the <b>Enable DHCP</b> option, as needed, to not use the network as a DCHP. DHCP is enabled by default. If enabled, the subnet will serve as your DHCP server. Instances associated with the subnet will be assigned an IP address from this pool.</p>

<p>b. Optionally, enter the starting and ending IP addresses you want for your DHCP allocation pool in the <b>Allocation Pools</b> field, in the format IP<i>ADDR,IP</i>ADDR. For example: 192.168.1.10,192.168.1.120. By deafult, the server has an application pool starting with 10.0.0.0/24.</p>

<p>c. Optionally, enter the IP Address of your subnet in the <b>DNS Name Servers</b> field. If blank, your subnet will default to using HP's internal DNS which uses DNSMASQ.</p>

<p>d. Optionally, enter the Destination CIDR and Next Hop for your subnet in the <b>Host Routes</b> field to create host routes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deleteport"> <title>Delete a subnet</title>
<p>Before you delete a subnet, you must first <xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.ports.dita" >delete all ports</xref> associated with the subnet.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Networks</b> link on the <b>Admin</b> dashboard <b>System</b> panel.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The network(s) for the selected project appear.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the name of the network you want to work with.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Network Detail</b> page, for the subnet you want to delete, click <b>More &gt; Delete Subnet</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Subnet</b>.</p>

<p>A message appears indicating if the subnet was deleted successfully.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3262"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
