<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ceph_overview">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Ceph Overview</title>
  <body>
    <section><p>Ceph is an open source, scalable, software-defined storage (SDS) platform that
                provides block and object storage with unified management.</p><p>The HP Helion
                OpenStack 2.0 Ceph Storage Solution provides an unified, scalable, and stable
                storage solution for the management of the HP Helion OpenStack Volume Storage
                (Cinder persistent Volumes) service. </p>For more information about installation,
            configuration, and integration between HP Helion OpenStack: 2.0 and Ceph Firefly 0.80.7
            running on the hlinux kernel 3.14.44-1, see <xref
                href="../../installation/configure_ceph.dita#config_ceph"/>.<p>HP Helion OpenStack
                introduces the concept of cloud models, where the user can modify the YAML to
                provide the required configuration based on their environment. To deploy Ceph, and
                make configuration changes, you must modify the cloud input model files related to
                Ceph.</p><p>You can implementing the input model and perform the following Ceph
                    activities:<ul id="ul_yt2_wzl_rt">
                    <li><xref href="../../installation/configure_ceph.dita#config_ceph"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="adding_new_osd_node.dita#topic_drm_rm5_kt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="adding_new_monitor_node.dita#topic_zbc_pg4_rt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="configuring_use_ceph_cluster.dita#topic_i2z_zc3_pt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="configuring_use_ceph_cluster_glance.dita#topic_qch_rmx_st"
                        /></li>
                    <li><xref href="deploy_monitor_stand_alone_node.dita#topic_ah5_4yx_qt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="defining_monitor_resource.dita#topic_owr_kf4_rt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="reconfigure_ceph_services.dita#topic_bl1_bfx_qt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="remove_osd_node.dita#topic_ipm_gnt_rt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="remove_monitor_node.dita#topic_a3t_ptt_rt"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="ceph_operation.dita#topic_wbn_td3_pt"/></li>
                </ul></p></section>
    <note>Ceph upgrade is a built-in, integral part of the HP Helion Lifecycle Management upgrade, and
            is in line with rest of the supported services. In HP Helion OpenStack 2.0, the supported
            version of Ceph is Firefly 0.80.7. In upcoming HP Helion OpenStack releases, new
            versions of Ceph will be supported and the cluster can be upgraded to new releases. You
            should not use other releases of Ceph (for example, Firefly 0.80.10) and run Ceph
            upgrade verbs to upgrade the cluster. Doing this might cause a cluster stability
            issue.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
