<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qch_rmx_st">
  <title>Configuring Ceph to use OpenStack Services (Glance) </title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the procedure to configure Ceph as a default Glance store. Currently,
      Swift is  used as the default Glance store. </p>
    <section id="configure-ceph-as-cinder-backend">
      <title>Configure Ceph as Glance Store</title>
      <p>Perform the following procedure on the Deployer node to configure Ceph as a default Glance
          store:<ol id="ol_u12_kd3_pt">
          <li>Edit <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/glance/glance-api.conf.j2</codeph> to add the
            following values.
            <codeblock>default_store = rbd
stores = rbd
rbd_store_pool = images
rbd_store_user = glance
rbd_store_ceph_conf = /etc/ceph/ceph.conf
rbd_store_chunk_size = 8</codeblock></li>
          <li>In the same file comment out the following references to
            Swift:<codeblock>stores = {{ glance_stores }}
default_store = {{ glance_default_store }}</codeblock></li>
          <li> Copy <codeph>ceph.client.glance.keyring</codeph> to all the controller nodes:<ol
              id="ol_m5r_k23_pt">
              <li>Login to controller node as a root user and execute the following
                    command.<codeblock>ceph auth get-or-create client.glance | tee /etc/ceph/ceph.client.glance.keyring</codeblock><p><b>OR</b></p><p>You
                  can copy the keyring from the deployer
                  node<codeblock>scp /etc/ceph/ceph.client.glance.keyring</codeblock> to
                    <codeph>/etc/ceph</codeph> folder on all the controller nodes.</p></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li>Commit your configuration to the local repository to configure cinder on the deployer node.<p>
              <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "&lt;commit message>"</codeblock>
            </p></li>
          <li>Run the following command to create a deployment
            directory.<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
<codeph>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeph></codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the following ansible
            playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts glance-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <p>Once glance is configured, any image creation will use Ceph as the default data store.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
