<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ipm_gnt_rt">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Removing Object Storage Daemon (OSD) Node </title>
  <body><!--Needs Edit-->
    <p>Perform the following steps to remove the OSD node:<ol id="ol_v3t_4nt_rt">
        <li> Login to the deployer/lifecycle-manager node.</li>
        <li>Make a note of the OSD numbers on the OSD node to be removed. A sample of OSD node is as
                        follows:<codeblock>$ ceph osd tree
# id    weight  type name       up/down reweight
-1      6       root default
-2      3               host padawan-ceph-ccp-ceph0003-mgmt
0       1                       osd.0   up      1
3       1                       osd.3   up      1
6       1                       osd.6   up      1
<b>-4      3               host padawan-ceph-ccp-ceph0001-mgmt
1       1                       osd.1   up      1
4       1                       osd.4   up      1
7       1                       osd.7   up      1</b>
-3      3               host padawan-ceph-ccp-ceph0002-mgmt
2       1                       osd.2   up      1
5       1                       osd.5   up      1
8       1                       osd.8   up      1</codeblock><p>For
                        example, to remove the OSD node
                            <codeph>padawan-ceph-ccp-ceph0001-mgmt</codeph>, the OSD numbers 1, 4
                        and 7 are relevant.</p></li>
        <li>Stop the OSDs running on the specific host by executing the following command
                        :<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts ceph-stop.yml --limit &lt;osd-node-to-remove></codeblock><note>Replace
                        the string (<codeph>osd-node-to-remove</codeph>) in above command with the
                        OSD host to be removed from cluster (for example:
                            <codeph>stratushelion-ccp-ceph0001-mgmt </codeph>).</note></li>
        <li> Execute the following command for each OSD number (obtained from step #2
                        above):<codeblock>ceph osd out &lt;osd-number> --cluster &lt;ceph_cluster>
ceph auth del osd.&lt;osd-number> --cluster &lt;ceph_cluster>
ceph osd crush remove osd.&lt;osd-number> --cluster &lt;ceph_cluster> 
ceph osd rm &lt;osd-number> --cluster &lt;ceph_cluster></codeblock><note>Replace
                        the string &lt;ceph_cluster> with the name of your Ceph cluster (default
                        cluster name is <b>ceph</b>).</note></li>
        <li>Run the following command to remove the OSD host from the Ceph CRUSH map
                        :<codeblock>ceph osd crush remove &lt;host-name></codeblock><note> Replace
                        the string &lt;host-name> in the above command.</note></li>
        <li>Remove the section for the OSD host from
                        <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/servers.yml</codeph> file.</li>
        <li>Commit your
          configuration<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "Remove OSD node &lt;host-name>"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration
          processor:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Use the playbook below to create a deployment directory:
                        <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock><note>Replace
                        the string &lt;host-name> in the above commit message with the actual host
                        name (i.e. <codeph>padawan-ceph-ccp-ceph0001-mgmt</codeph> as mentioned in
                        the above example).</note></li>
        <li>Log in to the OSD node and un-mount the data and journal disks. Also remove the mount
                    instructions for the same disks from the <i>/etc/fstab</i> file. <p> </p></li>
      </ol></p>
  </body>
</topic>
