<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1693">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Installing HP StoreVirtual VSA</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B, Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/VSA/carrier.install-vsa.old.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/vsa/old/  --></p>
<p>This page provides detailed instructions on deployment of HP StoreVirtual VSA Storage Nodes, and their configuration as Cinder backend. It covers the following topics:</p>
<p>Use the following steps to install HP StoreVirtual VSA in your HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade cloud.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the KVM host, change to the directory where your cloud is installed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Go to the folder where cloud is created.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change Directory to services/cinder/blocks/</p>

<p>This folder contains a <codeph>cinder_conf_default.sample</codeph> file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy that file to <codeph>cinder_conf_default</codeph> using any standard method, such as the <codeph>cp</codeph> command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>cp cinder_conf_default.sample cinder_conf_default
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Modify the <codeph>cinder_conf_default</codeph> with values based on your environment.</p>

<p>The parameters in file are as follows. If required more parameters can be added to this file.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>hplefthand_username = &lt;username&gt;
hplefthand_password = &lt;password&gt;
hplefthand_clustername = &lt;Cluster Name&gt;
hplefthand_api_url = https://&lt;Iscsi Virtual IP address&gt;/lhos
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the following command to copy the parameters in the <codeph>cinder_conf_default</codeph> to the <codeph>cinder.conf</codeph> file in the <codeph>CND-SVC</codeph> role.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>hcfgproc
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The next time the <codeph>CND-SVC</codeph> role is implemented, the role will have the StoreVirtual Information.</p>
<section id="next-steps"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>
  <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/VSA/carrier.install-vsa-deploy.dita" >Deploying HP StoreVirtual VSA Storage Sytems</xref>
</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1693"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
