<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic44624">
   <title><tm tmtype="reg">HP Helion OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Installing HP StoreVirtual VSA Overview</title>
   <prolog>
      <metadata>

         <othermeta name="product" content="commercial.ga"/>
         <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
         <othermeta name="role1" content="Storage Administrator"/>
         <othermeta name="role2" content="Storage Architect"/>
         <othermeta name="authors" content="Michael B, Paul F"/>
      </metadata>
   </prolog>
   <body>
      <!--UNDER REVISION-->
      <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/vsa/overview/-->
      <p>This page provides an overview of the instructions on how to deploy HP StoreVirtual VSA
         Storage Nodes, and their configuration as Cinder backend. The following diagram gives an
         overview of the steps involved in deploying, configuring and integrating StoreVirtual nodes
         into your cloud. The subsequent sections provide the detailed instructions on integration
         workflow. </p>
      <p><xref
            href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/storevirtual-integration.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"
            >HP StoreVirtual VSA Deployment and Configuration Procedure (opens in a new
            window)</xref></p><ol>
         <li>Install CMC [Install CMC](#install-hp-storevirtual-cmc) on the seed node where the seed
            cloud is running</li>
      </ol> 1 - . The CMC binary comes with the HP Helion OpenStack installer and is present in the
      **Tripleo** directory. 2 - **Add VSA Baremetal nodes to ironic database** * Identify the
      hardware for StoreVirtual deployment and enroll the Baremetal to the ironic database. * Log in
      to the undercloud and source the environment variables(source stackrc). * Execute ironic CLI
      commands from the undercloud to enroll the Baremetal into ironic database. * [Deploy
      StoreVirtual storage systems](#deployment-vsa). 3a - **Run update cloud script to provision
      VSA node** * After the [enrollment of the new Baremetal server](#deployment-vsa) in the
      undercloud, log in to the seed cloud. * Update the *overcloud.json* file for StoreVirtual
      deployment and apply the configuration. * Execute the update cloud script. 3b - **Discover
      StoreVirtual in CMC** * After updating the cloud, StoreVirtual system is deployed in the new
      Baremetal server that is enrolled. * Create StoreVirtual cluster. * The IP address of the
      StoreVirtual storage system can be retrieved from `/etc/vsa/vsa_network_config.json` file in
      StoreVirtual node. * Launch the CMC and discover the StoreVirtual systems that have been
      deployed. 3c - **Create VSA cluster** * After discovering the StoreVirtual storage systems in
      CMC, [create the StoreVirtual cluster and management group](#create-cluster) from CMC. 4a -
      **Launch the undercloud Horizon dashboard** 4b - **Register VSA cluster** 4c - **Create VSA
      backend** 4d- **Get Cinder configuration for VSA backend** * Launch the Horizon Dashboard to
      [register and create backend for
      StoreVirtual](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/) system. * After
      creating the backend, generate the Cinder backend advisory for StoreVirtual. 5a - **Update
      `overcloud-config.json` file with cinder configuration** With the advise generated from the
      above steps, update the overcloud-config.json file in the seed cloud. 5b - **Run update cloud
      script to update cinder.conf** * The cinder.conf in the overcloud should be updated after
      updating the overcloud-config.json file in the seed cloud. * Execute [update cloud
      script](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/) from seed cloud. --> ## Next
      Step {#next-steps} [Installing HP StoreVirtual
      VSA](/helion/openstack/carrier/install/vsa/cluster/) <xref href="#top" type="section"> Return
         to Top &#8593; </xref>
   </body>
</topic>


