<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3340">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Enrolling the New Baremetal Server</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B, Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/VSA/carrier.install-vsa-enroll.old.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/install/vsa/enroll/--></p>
<!--

</p> 
-->
<p>This page provides detailed instructions on deployment of HP StoreVirtual VSA Storage Nodes, and their configuration as Cinder backend. It covers the following topics:</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> Before enrolling the new Baremetal server for StoreVirtual deployment, ensure that <codeph>ironic node-list</codeph> in the undercloud server does not have any free nodes suitable for StoreVirtual installation. If a suitable node is available, skip the Baremetal registration steps and go to <b>step 5</b> below.</p>
<p>You must add a server to the cloud inventory to handle the increased number of nodes.</p>
<p>Perform the following steps to add a physical server:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in to the seed VM:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;Seed IP Address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Make the respective Baremetal entry in <codeph>/root/baremetal.csv</codeph>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add the node to <codeph>baremetal.csv</codeph> at the end.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>&lt;mac_address&gt;,&lt;user&gt;,&lt;password&gt;,&lt;ip_address&gt;,&lt;no_of_cpus&gt;,&lt;memory_MB&gt;,&lt;diskspace_GiB&gt;,&lt;role&gt;,&lt;power_managemenment&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The following sample displays the output of the above command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>E8:39:35:2B:FA:30,administrator,password,10.1.192.46,12,73728,70,OvercloudVSAAOStorage,IPMI
9C:B6:54:AD:55:A8,administrator,gone2far,10.1.192.50,12,73728,70,OvercloudVSAStorage,IPMI
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>Ensure that a new node is added at the end of the file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit the scale counts in JSON environment variables file (for example: <codeph>kvm-custom-ips.json</codeph>) that was used during the initial installation to define the appropriate scale number:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>"vsa_scale": "&lt;no of StoreVirtual systems&gt;"
"vsa_ao_scale": "&lt;no of StoreVirtual systems with AO enabled&gt;"
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Source the environment variables file created during initial installation.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/&lt;environment variables file name&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>For example:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph># source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the installer script:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>bash -x tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_installer.sh --update-overcloud 2&gt;&amp;1 | tee update.log
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>This will register a new Ironic node and create a new Nova instance and a new Heat stack.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
<!--**Caution**: Do not provision proxy and scale-out object nodes together. The requirements are different for proxy nodes and scale-out object nodes. It is recommended that you use HP DL380 or HP SL230 servers for Proxy nodes and SL4540 servers for scale-out Object storage nodes.-->
 <!--   **Note**: While deploying a scale-out **proxy** node ensure that the value of `vsa_scale` is unchanged. While deploying a scale-out **object** node ensure that the value of `vsa_ao_scale` is unchanged.-->
<b>NOTE</b>: For HP StoreVirtual VSA, a management group with two storage systems and a Failover Manager is the minimum configuration for automated fault tolerant operations. Configurations greater than two systems can be redundant and do not require a Failover Manager. The Failover Manager is a specialized version of the LeftHand OS software designed to operate as a manager and provide automated failover capability. It runs as a virtual appliance and must be installed on a separate system/VM  other than the storage systems in the SAN.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3340/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<section id="setting-the-public-interface-parameter"> <title>Setting the public interface parameter</title>
<p>As of Helion 1.1, you have to specify the public interface parameter when you are planning to configure VSA in:</p>
<ul>
<li>FLAT mode (no VLAN)</li>
<li>FCP mode</li>
<li>VLAN provider mode</li>
</ul>
<p>To specify the public interface, edit the VSA_PUBLIC_INTERFACE variable in the <codeph>~/tripleo/overcloud-env.json</codeph> file.</p>
</section>
<section id="next-steps"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>
<xref href="../VSA/carrier.undercloud-storage-storevirtual.dita" >Working with HP StoreVirtual VSA</xref> REQUIRED</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3340/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
