<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1643">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Pausing and Un-pausing Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Instances/1.1commercial.dashboard.instances.pause.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/pause/--></p>
<p>When a user <i>pauses</i> an instance, the instance  remains running, but, in a frozen state. The contents of the instance are stored in memory (RAM). Memory and vCPUs are not released.</p>
<p>Users can suspend an instance, for example, in order to make a back up of an instance to prevent the instance  from being used during the process.</p>
<p>
      <b>Note:</b> Pausing is different from 
  <xref href="CGH-2-User-Instance-suspend.dita#topic1594">suspending an instance</xref>. Suspending stops the instance,
      stores the contents on the disk. the memory and vCPUs become available to create other
      instances.</p>
<section id="pause-an-instance"><title>Pause an instance</title><p>To pause an instance:</p><ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
            <b>Instances</b> tab. </li>
        <li>In the <b>Instances</b> table, for the instance you want to pause, click <b>Edit
            Instance &gt; Pause Instance</b>.</li>
      </ol><p>The status of the instance reports *Paused*.</p>Note that many of the commands on the
        <b>More</b> menu are not available for a paused instance.</section>
<section id="un-pause-an-instance"> <title>Un-pause an instance</title>
<p>To unpause an instance:</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
            <b>Instances</b> tab. </li>
        <li>In the <b>Instances</b> table, for the instance you want to unpause, click <b>Edit
            Instance &gt; Unpause Instance</b>.<p>Note that all of the commands on the <b>More</b>
            menu are available.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1643"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
