<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2817">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Creating Virtual Machine
    Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p><!--UNDER REVISION--><!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Instances/1.1commercial.dashboard.instances.create.md--><!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/create/--></p>
    <p>Instances are virtual machines that run inside the cloud.</p>
    <p>You can launch an instance from the following sources:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Images uploaded to the Image Service.</li>
      <li>Image that you have copied to a persistent volume.</li>
    </ul>
    <section id="create-an-instance">
      <title>Create an instance</title>
      <p>To create an instance:</p>
      <ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
            <b>Instances</b> tab. </li>
        <li>In the <b>Instances</b> table, click <b>Launch Instance</b>.<p>The Launch Instance
            dialog box opens, with five tabs: <b>Details</b>, <b>Access and Security</b>,
              <b>Networking</b>, <b>Post Creation</b>, and <b>Advanced Options</b>. By default,
              <b>Details</b> is the active tab.</p></li>
        <li>On the <b>Details</b> tab, perform the following tasks:<ul>
            <li>From the <b>Availability Zone</b> list, select the AZ this instance will be
              associated with.</li>
            <li>In the <b>Instance Name</b> field, enter the name for the instance.</li>
            <li>From the <b>Flavor</b> list select the flavor.</li>
            <li>In the <b>Instance Count</b> field, enter the number of instances required.</li>
            <li>
              <p>From the <b>Instance Boot Source</b> list, select the source to create the image
                from:</p>
              <ul>
                <li>Image -- create an image from an existing image</li>
                <li>Snapshot -- create an image from an existing snapshot</li>
                <li>Volume -- create an image from an existing volume</li>
                <li>Image (create new volume) -- create an image from an existing image and create a
                  new volume</li>
                <li>Volume snapshot (create new volume) -- create an image from an existing snapshot
                  and create a new volume</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Select the volume, snapshot, or image from the list that appears.</p>
              <p>Additonal fields appear for the boot source option that create a new volume. For
                more information, refer to <xref
                  href="../Volumes/CGH-2-User-volumes-managing.dita#topic1382">Managing Block
                  Storage Volumes</xref></p>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>On the <b>Access &amp; Security</b> tab, perform the following tasks:.<ul>
            <li>From the <b>Keypair</b> list, select the <b>keypair</b> to use with the
              instance.</li>
            <li>Select the security group to use with the instance.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>On the <b>Networking</b> tab, from the <b>Available Networks</b> list, select the
          required network. The network is displayed in the <b>Selected Networks</b> box.</li>
        <li>On the <b>Post-Creation</b> tab, optionally, enter a script to pass user data to the
          instance at launch time.<p>For more details, refer to the OpenStack documentation, such as
              <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/user-data.html"
              scope="external" format="html">Configure instances at boot</xref>.</p></li>
        <li>On the <b>Advanced Options</b> tab, select either <b>Automatic</b> or <b>Manual</b> in
          the <b>Disc Partition</b> list<p>Selecting <b>Automatic</b> will resize the partitions on
            boot to match the size requested by the user. If you select <b>Manual</b>, you will need
            to manually resize the partitions, after the instance boots.</p></li>
        <li>Click <b>Launch</b> to launch the instance.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <p/>
  </body>
</topic>
