<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1314">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Rebuilding Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Instances/1.1commercial.dashboard.instances.rebuild.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/rebuild/--></p>
<p>The rebuild operation removes all data on the server and replaces it with the specified image.</p>
<p>A rebuild operation always removes data injected into the file system through server personality. You can reinsert data into the file system during the rebuild.</p>
<section id="rebuilding-an-instance"> <title>Rebuilding an instance</title>
<p>To rebuild an instance:</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Based on whether you are <xref
                        href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-how-works.dita#topic6108">working on
                        a project or the domain</xref>:<ul id="ul_p2p_pft_jt">
                        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the
                                <b>Instances</b> tab. </li>
                        <li>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>Compute</b> panel, then
                            the <b>Instances</b> tab. </li>
                    </ul></li>
        <li>In the <b>Instances</b> table, for the instance you want to rebuild, click <b>Edit
            Instance</b> then <b>Rebuild Instance</b>. </li>
<li>In the <b>Rebuild Instances</b> screen:<ul>
            <li>Select the image to use to rebuild the instance. You can select the same image or
              rebuild using a different image.</li>
            <li>Specify whether the instance will automatically partition, based on the image, or
              you will manually partition the instance.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Rebuild Instance</b>.<p>The progress of the reboot is
            displayed in the <b>Task</b> column on the <b>Instances</b> screen.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
