<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2817">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Creating Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Instances/1.1commercial.dashboard.instances.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/create/--></p>
<p>Instances are virtual machines that run inside the cloud.</p>
<p>You can launch an instance from the following sources:</p>
<ul>
<li>Images uploaded to the Image Service.</li>
<li>Image that you have copied to a persistent volume.</li>
</ul>
<section id="create-an-instance"> <title>Create an instance</title>
<p>To create an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Instances</b> link on the <b>Project</b> dashboard <b>Compute</b> panel.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Instances</b> screen, for the instance you want to modify, click <b>Launch Instance</b>.</p>

<p>The Launch Instance dialog box opens, with five tabs: <b>Details</b>, <b>Access and Security</b>, <b>Networking</b>, <b>Post Creation</b>, and <b>Advanced Options</b>. By default, <b>Details</b> is the active tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Details</b> tab, perform the following tasks:</p>

<ul>
<li>From the <b>Availability Zone</b> list, select the AZ this instance will be associated with.</li>
<li>In the <b>Instance Name</b> field, enter the name for the instance.</li>
<li>From the <b>Flavor</b> list select the flavor.</li>
<li>In the <b>Instance Count</b> field, enter the number of instances required.</li>
<li>
<p>From the <b>Instance Boot Source</b> list, select the source to create the image from:</p>

<ul>
<li>Image -- create an image from an existing image</li>
<li>Snapshot -- create an image from an existing snapshot</li>
<li>Volume -- create an image from an existing volume</li>
<li>Image (create new volume) -- create an image from an existing image and create a new volume</li>
<li>Volume snapshot (create new volume) -- create an image from an existing snapshot and create a new volume</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the volume, snapshot, or image from the list that appears.</p>

<p>Additonal fields appear for the boot source option that create a new volume. For more information, refer to <xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Volumes/1.1commercial.managing.volumes.dita" >Managing Block Storage Volumes</xref>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Access &amp; Security</b> tab, perform the following tasks:.</p>

<ul>
<li>From the <b>Keypair</b> list, select the <b>keypair</b> to use with the instance.</li>
<li>Select the security group to use with the instance.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Networking</b> tab, from the <b>Available Networks</b> list, select the required network. The network is displayed in the Selected Networks box.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Post-Creation tab, optionally, enter a script to pass user data to the instance at launch time.</p>

<p>For more details, refer to the OpenStack documentation, such as <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/user-data.html" scope="external" format="html" >Configure instances at boot</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Advanced Options</b> tab, select either <b>Automatic</b> or <b>Manual</b> in the <b>Disc Partition</b> list</p>

<p>Selecting <b>Automatic</b> will resize the partitions on boot to match the size requested by the user. If you select <b>Manual</b>, you will need to manually resize the partitions, after the instance boots.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Launch</b> to launch the instance.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2817"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
