<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5192">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Working Stacks, Templates, and Parameters
        (Orchestration)</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/stacks/--></p>
<p>A collection of resources created and managed using the Orchestration (Heat) service is called a service (also known as a stack).</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Service resources can be flavors, images, instances, tenant networks, volumes, security groups, users, floating IP addresses, or any other entities defined and configured in templates. Most types of resources offered by BHP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade can be defined in templates and included in services.</p>
<p>See the following topics on using stacks:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="/helion/openstack/carrier/admin/stacks/create" >Creating a Stack</xref>
</li>
<li>
                <xref href="carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-user-data.dita">Customizing Guest Images
                    with User Data</xref>
            </li>
<li>
<xref href="../Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-autoscale.dita" >Resource Scaling (Autoscaling)</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-sample-templates.dita" >Reporting a Guest Metric</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-sample-templates.dita" >Sample Templates for HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-sample-resource-types.dita" >Supported Heat Resource Types</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Using the CLI, you can obtain information on existing stacks in several ways:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<codeph>heat stack-list</codeph> shows the names of stacks.</li>
<li>
<codeph>heat stack-show &lt;name&gt;</codeph> shows details about the named stack.</li>
<li>
<codeph>heat stack-create &lt;name&gt;</codeph> creates the named stack with given parameters.</li>
<li>
<codeph>heat stack-modify &lt;name&gt;</codeph> modifies the named stack according to given parameters.</li>
<li>
<codeph>heat stack-delete &lt;name&gt;</codeph> deletes the named stack.</li>
</ul>
<p>Services can include static and autoscaling resources.</p>
<ul>
<li>Static resource - A resource that is defined when the cloud is launched, and does not change unless a heat stack-modify
command is issued.</li>
<li>
<p>Autoscaling resource - A resource that can be created, modified, or removed in response to performance metrics collected by Ceilometer.</p>

<p>These can include metrics generated by the Titanium Server or OpenStack(R) platform, and metrics generated by VM instances using CloudWatch.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="templates"> <title>Templates</title>
<p>A template is a formal set of instructions for defining and configuring a service.</p>
<p>Templates specify the resources to include in a service, and relationships between them.</p>
<p>A template contains several sections, including:</p>
<ul>
<li>Description - You can use this section to provide comments about the service, such as its purpose or any special considerations when using it.</li>
<li>
<p>Parameters - This section defines the parameters that you can pass to the service template. You can pass parameters using the command line, a web form, or an environment file.</p>

<p>You can include a default value for a parameter, and optionally pass a different value when the template isdeployed. If no default value is included, you must provide a value when the template is deployed. Parameters without default values are called mandatory parameters.</p>
</li>
<li>Resources - This section defines the resources to be created. They can be specified in any order.</li>
</ul>
<p>There are two official formats for templates: CloudFormation (CFN) and Heat Orchestration Template (HOT).</p>
<ul>
<li>CFN -This format is associated with Amazon Web Services (AWS) technology. A CFN template is indicated by the
first line:
    HeatTemplateFormatVersion: '2012-12-12'</li>
<li>
<p>HOT - This format is associated specifically with the OpenStack(R) project. A HOT template is indicated by the first line:
    heat_template_version: 2013-05-23</p>

<p>In HOT, some of the built-in functions are different, and lowercase is used for attribute names.
Both formats support and OpenStack(R) resources, in any combination.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The Wind River Linux servers include sample CFN and HOT service templates for demonstration purposes. The templates are expressed using YAML, which is the recommended notation for HOT. Heat templates may also be expressed using
JSON, which is the usual notation for CFN.</p>
<p>You can specify parameters for a service, such as authentication, storage, networking, and so on, when you invoke a template.</p>
<p>You can supply parameter values by:</p>
<ul>
<li>including them in the template as defaults</li>
<li>specifying each one using a form in the web administration interface, or using the <codeph>-parameters</codeph> option on the <codeph>heat create-stack</codeph> command line</li>
<li>saving them in an environment file, which you can specify using the <codeph>-e</codeph> option on the <codeph>heat create-stack</codeph> command line
This enables you to customize the behavior of a common service template when the service is created or modified.</li>
</ul>
<p>You can use environment files or command-line entries to supplement parameters in the template, or to override them
if they already exist.</p>
<ul>
<li>Environment-file values override existing values in the template. </li>
<li>Command-line values override
existing values in the environment file or the template.</li>
</ul>
<p>The syntax for specifying parameters is as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>on the command line, using the -P option. Multiple -P arguments are supported.</p>

<codeblock><codeph>heat stack-create -P key1=val1 -P key2=val2
</codeph></codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>in an environment file:</p>

<codeblock><codeph>parameters:
    key:value
    key:value
</codeph></codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="wind-river-linux-extensions-to-heat"> <title>Wind River Linux Extensions to Heat</title>
<p>Several extensions to Heat are included with Wind River Linux. For more information, see <xref href="../Stacks/carrier-grade-admin-wr-stacks-wr.dita" >Extensions to Heat</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic5192/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
