<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3428">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Planning for Guest VLANs</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-guest-vlan.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/configuration/plan/network/guest/vlan/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>Use guest VLANs to segregate IP traffic from a single virtual Ethernet interface on a virtual machine into dedicated VLANs. Together with the capability to define multiple IP subnets on a single tenant network, guest VLANs facilitate the transitioning of existing guest applications to run on the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade virtualized network environment.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Guest VLANs are useful when guest applications rely on the capability to configure a single virtual Ethernet interface with multiple, probably overlapping, IP addresses. From the point of view of the guest, this is done by defining VLAN Ethernet interfaces, and associating one or more IP addresses to them. If implementing overlapping IP addresses, typically in support of VPN applications, the guest must use different VLAN IDs to separate traffic from different VPNs.</p>
<p>For example. on a Linux guest, the virtual interfaces eth0.10:1, eth0.10:2, and eth0.20 refer to the same eth0 physical interface with two virtual interfaces on VLAN ID 10, and a single virtual interface on VLAN ID 20. A common scenario in a VLAN application is to allocate distinct IP addresses from the same IP subnet to virtual interfaces on the same VLAN. In this example, eth0.10:1 and eth0.10:2 could be assigned distinct IP addresses from the subnet 192.168.1.0/24, and eth0.20 an address from the subnet 192.168.2.0/24. In the case of a VPN application, overlapping IP addresses are allowed to exist on eth0.20 and either eth0.10:1 or eth0.10:2.</p>
<p>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade supports these deployment scenarios with the help of guest VLANs which enable the transport of IP subnets traffic over VLAN-tagged Ethernet frames. To support the example above, a project user would define the following two IP subnets, both on the same tenant network, using guest VLAN IDs as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>Subnet 192.168.1.0/24 with guest VLAN ID set to 10</li>
<li>Subnet 192.168.2.0/24 with guest VLAN ID set to 20</li>
</ul>
<p>The subnet-to-VLAN_ID mapping can be one-to-one, as in this example, or many-to-one. This means that tenant users can use a single VLAN ID of their choice to encapsulate traffic from one or more IP subnets.</p>
<section id="creating-guest-vlans"> <title>Creating Guest VLANs</title>
<p>Tenant users can define a guest VLAN when they add a new IP subnet to a tenant network they are creating, or to an existing one. For more information, see <xref href="../Networks/carrier-grade.dashboard.network.guest.vlan.dita" >Adding and Removing Subnets</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="implementing-a-guest-vlan"> <title>Implementing a Guest VLAN</title>
<p>Guest VLANs are implemented using available segmentation ranges from suitable provider networks, just as it is done when new tenant networks are created. Therefore all network design considerations regarding the configuration of L2 switches and the Neutron allocation strategy, described in <xref href="../ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-tenant.dita" >Planning the Tenant Networks</xref> must be taken into consideration.</p>
<p>Additionally, note that the AVS will silently discard incoming VLAN-tagged VM traffic with unknown VLAN IDs, that is, with VLAN IDs not defined as guest VLANs on the particular tenant network.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3428"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
