<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1452">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Planning the Management Network</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-management.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/configuration/plan/network/mgmt/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The internal management network is a private network, only visible internally by the hosts in the cluster.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>You must consider the following guidelines:</p>
<ul>
<li>The management network cannot be a VLAN-tagged network. This restriction is required to accommodate PXE booting of other nodes over the network. To isolate the cluster's management traffic on an L2 switch connected to other networks, use port- or MAC-based VLANs. However, the infrastructure or external OAM networks can use
VLAN tagging to share the same interface.</li>
<li>You can use any 1G or 10 G interface on the hosts to connect to this network, provided that the interface supports network booting and can be configured from the BIOS as the primary boot device.</li>
<li>For the IPv4 address plan, use a private IPv4 subnet as specified in RFC 1918. This helps prevent unwanted crossnetwork
traffic on this network.</li>
</ul>
<p>It is suggested that you use the default subnet and addresses provided by the controller configuration script.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1452"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
