<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1895">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Planning the Infrastructure Network</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm>"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm>"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-infrastructure.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/configuration/plan/network/infra/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The infrastructure network is a private network visible only to the hosts in the cluster. It is optional unless storage nodes are part of the cluster.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Ihe infrastructure network shares the design considerations applicable to the internal management network. It can be implemented using either a 1 Gb or 10 Gb Ethernet interface. Unlike the management network, it can be VLAN-tagged, enabling it to share an interface with the management or OAM network.</p>
<p>The decision whether to implement an infrastructure network depends on the infrastructure traffic levels expected.</p>
<p>The following table provides general guidelines on when to implement the infrastructure network, using the number of compute nodes in the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade cluster as an indication of expected traffic levels:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>2 to 4 nodes</b> - No infrastructure network required. All infrastructure traffic is carried over the internal management network.</li>
<li>
<b>5 to 8</b> - Use 1 Gb Ethernet </li>
<li>
<b>9 or more</b> - Use 10 Gb Ethernet</li>
</ul>
<p>In addition to the number of compute nodes, other factors must be taken into account when deciding the type of infrastructure network to use. For example, live migration of large, memory-intensive, guest applications is likely to require additional network resources that might not be available in the current configuration. It is always safe toimplement the fastest infrastructure network possible.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1895"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
