<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1836">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Planning the OAM Network</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-oam.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/configuration/plan/network/oam/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The OAM (operations, administration, and management) network enables the web administration interface, the command-line management clients, SNMP interface, and the REST APIs to manage the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade cluster.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>You must consider the following guidelines:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Deploy proper firewall mechanisms to access this network. Ensuring that access to the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade management interfaces is not compromised should be of primary concern.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Consider whether the OAM management network needs access to the open Internet. Limiting access to an internal network might be advisable, keeping in mind that access to configured DNS and NTP servers may still be needed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>VLAN tagging is supported, enabling this network to share an interface with the management or infrastructure networks.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the IPv4 address plan, consider the following:</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The OAM IP floating address is the only address that needs to be visible externally. Therefore you must plan for valid definitions of its IPv4 subnet and default gateway.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The physical IPv4 addresses for the controllers don't need to be visible externally, unless you plan to use them during ssh sessions to prevent potential service breaks during the connection. You still need to plan for their IPv4 subnet, but you can limit access to them as required.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1836"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
