<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2881">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Planning the Board Management Network</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/ConfigPlanning/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-network-board-mgmt.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/configuration/plan/network/board/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The board management network is a private, optional network, only visible internally by the hosts in the cluster.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>The board management network provides for out-of-band reset, power-up, and power-down operations on HP hosts.</p>
<p>Support for this network is selected during controller configuration; for details, see the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade Software Installation Guide: The Controller Configuration Script. To support this feature, compute and storage nodes must be equipped with iLO3 or iLO4 (Integrated Lights Out) board management modules.</p>
<p>Compute and storage nodes connect using iLO modules, while controller nodes use the management port in tagged mode. The controller nodes can optionally attach using their own iLO modules, if available.</p>
<p>To use a board management network, you must do the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>On the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade:</p>

<ul>
<li>Designate a VLAN ID for use by the board management network.</li>
<li>Configure this VLAN ID as part of the software installation process.</li>
<li>Ensure that the internal management network is operational and that all participant hosts are attached to it.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade internal L2 switch:</p>

<ul>
<li>Configure a VLAN using the designated VLAN ID for the board management network.</li>
<li>Add each of the ports used to connect an iLO module to the VLAN.</li>
<li>Add the ports used to connect the controllers to the internal management network to the VLAN. You must ensure that these ports are tagged ports for this VLAN, that is, that outgoing board management traffic (toward the controllers) uses IEEE 802.1Q tagging. Other management traffic on this port is untagged.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure each iLO module to use DHCP.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Provision each iLO module with a username and password for secure access.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Provision each host with the MAC address of the attached iLO module. This is required so that the system can associate the module's assigned IP address with the correct host. The Board Management configuration window is available from the Edit Host window in the Inventory section in the web management interface.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Provision each host with the username and password of the attached iLO module. This is required for controller
access to the module.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For details on configuring or provisioning switch ports or iLO modules, consult the user documentation supplied with
the equipment.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2881"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
