<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4855">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Installation Troubleshooting</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
  <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/installation">Installation</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/download">Download</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/horizon">Horizon</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/dbaas">DBaaS</xref> (database)</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/ALS">ALS</xref> (Application Lifecycle Service)</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4855/instance-create">Creating Instances</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="installation"> <title>Installation</title>
  
  <dl><dlentry>
    <dt>When installing Messaging, the installer hangs and does not progress.</dt>
    <dd><p><b>Cause</b>: User is uploading an image to Glance which already exists.</p> 
      <p><b>Resolution</b>: Delete existing images and upload again. SSH into the HPE Helion
              OpenStack lifecycle manager (deployer node) and
                run:<codeblock>glance image-list | grep -iE '('"$PRODUCT"')' | cut -d '|' -f2 | tr -d ' ' | xargs -I {} -n1 glance image-delete {}</codeblock><note
                type="caution">This will remove ALL MSGaaS images.</note></p></dd>
  </dlentry><dlentry>
    <dt>When trying to communicate with Cue (API), <codeph>ERROR: openstack Unauthorized (HTTP 401)</codeph> is received.</dt>
    <dd>It is most likely that the Cue Keystone user has a different
      password than what was configured in cue.conf. This is usually caused by not deleting
      the Cue user and service from Keystone prior to re-deploying the Messaging Service.
      Synchronize the values by doing the following:<ol id="ol_t5m_2hs_wt">
        <li> SSH into one of the Cue controller nodes.</li>
        <li>Find the <codeph>/etc/cue/cue.conf</codeph> file</li>
        <li>Copy the value of the <b>admin_password</b> variable.</li>
        <li>Source <codeph>keystone.osrc</codeph></li>
        <li>Update the Cue user password in
          Keystone:<codeblock>openstack user set cue --password &lt;value of admin_password></codeblock></li>
      </ol></dd>
  </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt>After installation, the final output window is closed before you can make a note of the IP
            address or other information.</dt>
      <dd> From the HPE Helion OpenStack lifecycle manager (deployer node), run
            :<codeblock>openstack --os-cloud msgaas server list</codeblock>This command will list
            the list of servers created by the user, including the control plane nodes clusters, if
            created. </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="command-line-installer-fails-to-install">
      <dt>Command line installer fails to install</dt>
      <dd>Resolution: <b>Set</b> https_proxy and <b>unset</b> http_proxy values.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry id="command-line-installer-fails-to-install-with-authentication-error">
      <dt>Command line installer fails to install with Authentication Error</dt>
      <dd><p>Even after fixing some errors and retrying, the command line installation fails.</p>
        <p>Resolution:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Locate and open the <i>dev-platform-installer</i> folder. This folder is created by the
            installation process. <ul>
              <li>Delete the <i>.env</i> folder.</li>
              <li>Delete the <i>dev-platform-installer.conf</i> file.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Run the install command again with all command line options.</li>
        </ol></dd>
    </dlentry>
  </dl>
</section>


<section id="download"> <title>Download</title>
</section>
<section id="service-is-stuck-in-download"> <title>Service is stuck in download</title>
<p>The <i>tmp</i> directory has run out of space. Mount the <i>tmp</i> directory to a larger partition and try again. If it fails again, reset the download.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to Horizon as an Admin user.</li>
<li>In the <b>Admin</b> tenant, click <b>Project</b> and then <b>Object Store</b>.</li>
<li>Open the <b>sherpa-cache</b> folder and delete the <b>wscatalog.&lt;id&gt;</b> folder which contains the cached download.</li>
<li>Download the service again.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="download-terminates-and-remains-stuck-in-staging-status"> <title>Download terminates and remains stuck in "Staging" status</title>
<p>Only applies to Development Platform services. After the image download terminates for some reason, the download is reattempted. The status of the service in the Configure Services view remains stuck at "Staging" and does not progress to "Available".</p>
<p>Resolution: Completely delete the service before reattempting download.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to Horizon as an Admin user.</li>
<li>Delete the images for that service.</li>
<li>In the Admin tenant, click <b>Project</b> and then <b>Object Store</b>.</li>
<li>Go to Containers and delete the heat-templates for the service.</li>
<li>Go to Containers &gt; Sherpa-cache and delete the wscatalog folder for that service.</li>
</ol>
<p>If the status on the Configure Services view does not change to "Available", Sherpa is looking at the file cache. To clear this, remove the cache and restart Apache.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the controller management node.</li>
<li>Delete the directory <i>/var/cache/sherpa/ws.xxxx</i>
</li>
<li>Delete the contents of the <i>/var/lib/Sherpa/data</i> folder.</li>
<li>Apache must be restarted before this change will take effect.
          <codeblock>service apache2 restart </codeblock></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="horizon"> <title>Horizon</title>
</section>
<section id="installed-development-platform-services-do-not-appear-in-horizon"> <title>Installed Development Platform services do not appear in Horizon</title>
<p>Even though the service was installed successfully, the service does not appear in the appropriate tab.</p>
<p>Resolution: After installing any Helion Development Platform service, log out of Horizon and then back in to refresh the UI.</p>
</section>
<section id="deleted-service-still-appears-in-horizon"> <title>Deleted service still appears in Horizon</title>
<p>Even though the Development Platform stack has been deleted, the service still shows up in Horizon.</p>
<p>Resolution: Delete the service manually from the Keystone endpoint list. </p>
<codeblock>keystone endpoint-delete $&lt;id&gt;</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="dbaas"> <title>DBaaS</title>
</section>
<section id="dbaas-configuration-fails"> <title>DbaaS configuration fails</title>
<p>Resolution: Make sure that you can create a volume and attach it to instances. HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> supports VSA and 3PAR, but not LVM. Make sure your installation is configured to use either VSA or 3PAR.</p>
</section>
<section id="dbaas-instance-fails-to-start"> <title>DbaaS instance fails to start</title>
<p>Resolution: Check if you can create and start a Nova instance with the same flavor and verify you can attach a volume to that Nova instance. Verify that the Nova flavors have not been updated to invalid values. Verify that the flavor's ID is correct, as flavor updates cause the flavor IDs to change.</p>
</section>
<section id="ALS"> <title>ALS</title>
<p>
  <b>ALS cluster creation fails after successful installation of ALS and DBaaS.</b>
</p>
<p>Resolution: Make sure DBaaS is functional and responsive by creating a new DBaaS instance. If DBaaS is installed in the environment, ALS expects DBaaS to respond to API requests.</p>
<p>
  <b>ALS Constructor fails with "No valid host was found" Error</b>
</p>
<p>Resolution: Attempt to spin up a Nova instance with <b>Flavor</b> set to <b>Tiny</b>. Verify that the Nova flavors were NOT updated to invalid values. Verify the Flavor IDs, as updates cause flavor IDs to change.</p>
</section>
<section id="instance-create"> <title>Creating Instances</title>
</section>
<section id="dbaas-instances-als-clusters-marketplace-and-messaging-clusters-all-fail-to-start"> <title>DbaaS instances, ALS clusters, and Messaging clusters all fail to start.</title>
<p>Resolution: Nova and Neutron quotas have been exceeded. Increase quotas to support your desired configuration.</p>
</section>
<section id="issue-no-valid-host-was-found-error-received-during-installation-of-the-development-platform-and-dnaas"> <title>Issue: "No valid host was found" Error Received During Installation of the Development Platform and DNaaS</title>
<p>Resolution: This Nova error could have multiple causes. Do not assume that  it is out of compute resources. Check the <i>nova-scheduler</i> logs on the overcloud controllers to find the actual reason why Nova failed to schedule the instance; correct the issue; and then attempt the DNSaaS deployment again.</p>
</section>
  <section id="entity-too-large"><title>413 Request Entity Too Large</title><p>This error occurs when there isn't enough free quota in your tenant for the VM to be created. Check for free space and, if necessary, free up sufficient space for the VM you are attempting to create.</p>
</section></body>
</topic>
