<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4010">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Overview</title>
  <shortdesc>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is a high-performance, high-availability, cloud
    operating system based on OpenStack Kilo that enables telecommunications operators to use
    Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware to manage Virtualized Network Functions (VNF) within a
    carrier grade Network Function Virtualization (NFV) architecture.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade brings together the flexibility and scalability of the IT
      cloud, and the high-availability and performance demanded by the Telecommunications industry,
      into a unique carrier grade, industry-leading solution. HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is
      aligned with the ETSI-NFV architecture.</p>
    <section>
      <!-- From QuickSpec Asawa, Manjari <manjari.asawa@hp.com> -->
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade includes two Linux host operating systems, server
        virtualization (KVM), network virtualization (vSwitch and SDN controllers), an installer and
        cloud lifecycle management framework, fault and performance management, and
        high-availability framework for the OpenStack control plane.</p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is based on HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 but with
        significantly enhanced and optimized functionality, availability, scale and performance to
        meet the needs of NFV cloud deployments.</p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade includes following key components:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>OpenStack—core services including Horizon, Nova, Neutron, Cinder, Glance, Swift,
          Keystone, Ceilometer, and Heat. </li>
        <li>Compute node software package that includes: <ul>
            <li>Carrier-grade Linux (host operating system [OS] running on the compute nodes)</li>
            <li>Carrier-grade KVM (for virtualization of the compute node)</li>
            <li>Carrier-grade virtual switch, data plane development kit (DPDK)-enabled
              high-performance virtual switch</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Management and middleware—composed of high-availability (HA) management; operations,
          administration, and maintenance (OAM); software image management; and fault and
          performance management</li>
        <li>Guest software development kit (SDK) for inclusion in the guest OS of the  virtual
          network functions (VNF)  for performance acceleration and improving the HA framework above
          and beyond standard VIMs.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="focus-areas-for-hp-helion-openstack-carrier-grade">
      <title>Standard Features</title>
      <!-- From QuickSpec Asawa, Manjari <manjari.asawa@hp.com> -->
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry> Feature </entry>
              <entry> Description </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Availability and reliability </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>Advanced self-healing</li>
                  <li>No single point of failure</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Platform for high performance VNFs </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>Near-line rate networking throughout for VNFs like vEPC, vBRAS, vIMS, vFW,
                    vRouter etc.</li>
                  <li>Bare metal compute performance</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Manageability </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>In-service upgrade capabilities</li>
                  <li>Enhanced security</li>
                  <li>Inventory management</li>
                  <li>Advanced resource scheduling and orchestration capabilities</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>High Availability/ Disaster Recovery </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>NIC Bonding at the server level </li>
                  <li>HA for KVM instance</li>
                  <li>Compute Node failure detection and Auto-evacuation in the KVM region</li>
                  <li>Live Migration in the KVM region</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="section_N10027_N1001C_N10001">
      <title>Core HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Capabilities</title>
      <p>Core capabilities unique to HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade include:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Backup and Restore</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p><!--Original writing--></p>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade includes a backup and restore application called
              Attis which you can use to backup and restore essential system files and components of
              the non-KVM cloud. Attis is automatically installed on each of the controller nodes in
              the non-KVM region. For more information, see <xref
                href="../OperationsGuide/Backup/CGH-2-backup-restore.dita#topic10581">Backup and
                Restore Configuration Files and MySQL Clusters</xref>.</p>
            <p>For information on backing up and restoring the KVM region, see the <xref
                href="../AdminGuideNew/carrier-grade-admin-guide.dita#topic15959">KVM-Region
                Administrator Guide</xref>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Multiple NIC Support</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>When launching a VM instance, you can specify multiple network
              interfaces.<!--Original writing--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Centralized Logging</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Centralized Logging feature collects logs on a
              central system, rather than leaving the logs scattered across the network. The
              administrator can use a single Kibana interface to view log information in charts,
              graphs, tables, histograms, and other forms. For more information, see <xref
                href="../OperationsGuide/Logging/CHG-2-logging-overview.dita#topic5937">Centralized
                Logging</xref>.<!--Original writing--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Installation Options</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade has four deployment models, depending on your
              system configuration. Specific installation templates are included in the download
              package to facilitate the deployment of your cloud. </p>
            <p>You can find more information on the deployment options in the <xref
                href="../Installation/carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485">Technical
                Overview</xref>.<!--Original writing--><ul id="ul_kg5_h5d_25">
                <li>KVM only (using the Denver template)</li>
                <li>KVM with HP Distributed Cloud Networking (using the Tahoe template)</li>
                <li>KVM + VMware ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/> with DCN (using the Memphis template)</li>
                <li> KVM + ESX + Ironic with DCN (using the Sacramento Deployment)</li>
              </ul></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>External storage</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>You can integrate either HPE Storevirtual (VSA) or HP StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the
              KVM region.<!--Original writing--></p>
            <ul id="ul_qlk_3rw_d5">
              <li>With HPE StoreVirtual VSA storage <p>HPE StoreVirtual VSA software is a Virtual
                  Storage Appliance that provides the complete array functionality on top of a Linux
                  KVM environment without external hardware. VSA eliminates the need for external
                  shared storage required to implement Block Storage features.</p></li>
              <li>With HPE StoreServ (3PAR) storage <p>HPE 3PAR StoreServ is a storage array that
                  supports Fibre Channel (FC) as well as iSCSI protocol.</p></li>
            </ul>
            <p>You must install 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and
              are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Ironic Baremetal Region</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>When using the KVM + ESX + Ironic with DCN Topology, HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
              Grade leverages the OpenStack Ironic service, which aims to provision bare metal
              machines instead of virtual machines. For more information, see <xref
                href="../ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-ironic-overview.dita#topic1235"
                >Ironic Service Overview</xref>.<!--Original writing--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Unbonded or Bonded NIC configuration</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation allows for network interface card
              bonding (bonded NIC). <!--Original writing--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Service Overviews</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is comprised of a number of services, including
              several OpenStack and HP Helion OpenStack services.</p>
            <p>For more information, see <xref href="carrier-grade.services-overview.dita">Services
                Overview</xref>.<!--Original writing--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="networking">
          <dt><b>High-Performance Networking</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade provides significantly improved network performance
              over the default OpenStack solution through a guest application on a virtual
              machine.<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <p>Virtual switching is a key function within data centers based on Software Defined
              Networking (SDN) as well as telecom infrastructures that leverages Network Functions
              Virtualization (NFV). </p>
            <p>In the NFV scenario, for example, the virtual switch (vSwitch) is responsible for
              switching network traffic between the core network and the virtualized applications or
              Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) that are running in Virtual Machines (VMs). Based on
              your deployment model, you will use either:</p>
            <p><b>HPE DCN Virtual Routing Switch (VRS).</b> HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN) is
              a Software-Defined Networking (SDN) solution that provides data center (DC) network
              virtualization and automatically establishes connectivity between compute resources
              upon their creation. </p>
            <p>Leveraging programmable business logic and a powerful policy engine, the HP DCN
              provides an open and highly responsive solution that scales to meet the stringent
              needs of massive multi-tenant DCs. The HP DCN is a software solution that can be
              deployed over an existing DC IP network fabric. The main components in the HP DCN
              solution are: Virtualized Services Directory (VSD) and Virtualized Services Directory
              Architect (VSD-A), Virtualized Services Controller (VSC) and Virtual Routing and
              Switching (VRS). </p>
            <p><b>Accelerated vSwitch (AVS).</b> AVS is integrated into the servers in the KVM
              region. AVS is an optimization of Open vSwitch (OVS) technology for NFV environments.
              Open vSwitch is a multilayer software switch licensed under the open source Apache 2
              license. AVS provides connectivity between virtual machines on the same compute node,
              and between virtual machines and external networks. AVS supports a variety of network
              connectivity options with the hosted virtual machines, as follows: </p>
            <ul id="ul_mgc_xnp_nn">
              <li>
                <p>Unmodified guests can use Linux networking and virtio drivers. This provides a
                  mechanism to bring existing applications into the production environment
                  immediately.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Guest applications can be modified to leverage the Accelerated Virtual Port (AVP)
                  drivers provided with the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. AVP ports provide
                  increased throughput over plain virtio drivers when connected to the AVS.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>For the highest performance, guest applications can also be modified to make use
                  of the Intel DPDK libraries and the AVP poll-mode drivers provided by the HP
                  Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade to connect with the AVS Switch.</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>In addition to AVS, HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade incorporates DPDK-Accelerated
              Neutron Virtual Router L3 Forwarding (AVR). Accelerated forwarding is used between
              directly attached tenant networks and subnets, as well as for gateway, SNAT, and
              floating IP functionality.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>High-Availability Extensions</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade (in the KVM region) provides a number of extensions
              to OpenStack to deliver highly available hosting of virtual machines,
              including:<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <dl>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>1:1 OpenStack controller services</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Automatic configuration of the OpenStack controller services in 1:1
                    active/standby mode across two controller nodes. </p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Fast detection of compute host failures</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Implemented by using a highly efficient and highly scalable heartbeat protocol
                    between the controller and compute nodes.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Fast recovery of virtual machines instances upon detection of a compute node
                  failure</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Extensions to Nova services that automatically re-schedule impacted virtual
                    machine instances to available alternative compute nodes in the cluster.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Fast recovery of tenant network services upon detection of a compute node
                  failure</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Extensions to Neutron that automatically re-schedule impacted network services
                    such as DHCP, L3 Routing, and User/Meta data server, for all affected tenant
                    networks. This covers tenant networks spanning multiple compute nodes.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Fast and enhanced detection of virtual machines failures</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Failure of any KVM/QEMU instance is automatically reported by the death process
                    notification.</p>
                  <p>Additionally, modified guests can make use of the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
                    Grade Guest Heartbeat Library to register application-specific health check
                    callbacks with the virtual machine. This registration allows Nova compute
                    extensions on the host compute node to monitor the health of the guest
                    application. The frequency of the health checks is determined at registration
                    time. The semantics of the health check, that is, determining when the
                    application is in a good or a bad state, is under the control of the application
                    itself.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Automatic recovery of failed virtual machine instances</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Extensions to Nova that automatically re-start a failed virtual machine on the
                    same compute node. If the re-start operation fails, the virtual machine is
                    re-scheduled to use an alternative compute node.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Virtual machine server groups</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Named groups of virtual machines instances to which a common set of attributes
                    are applied, including:</p>
                  <ul id="ul_s5y_kbq_nn">
                    <li>
                      <p>compute node affinity or anti-affinity</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>maximum number of virtual machine instances</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>best effort or strict affinity policy</p>
                    </li>
                  </ul>
                  <p>Virtual machines in the same server group can use a server group messaging API
                    for low-bandwidth communications.</p>
                  <p>In a typical use of a virtual machine server group, guest applications in
                    active/standby pairs are deployed on different compute nodes to protect them
                    from hardware failures.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Live migration support with DPDK-accelerated networking</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Live migration support for virtual machines using the HP Helion OpenStack
                    Carrier Grade high-performance networking options.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Graceful shutdown (and other operations) of virtual machines</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Nova extensions that turn the default shutdown operation of virtual machines
                    into an ACPI shutdown. Guest applications can therefore register shutdown
                    scripts using standard ACPI mechanisms to execute operations such as closing
                    files, updating persistent databases, or cleanly disconnecting from subscribed
                    services.</p>
                  <p>Optionally, guest applications can use the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
                    Guest Heartbeat Library to register to receive process management requests such
                    as shutdown, live-migrate, pause, auto-scale, and others. The guest applications
                    can then reject the requests based upon application-specific state directives,
                    or prepare for a graceful execution.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Link Aggregation (LAG) support</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>Support for LAG, also known as Aggregate Ethernet, on controller and compute
                    nodes for link protection.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
              <dlentry>
                <dt>Protected HA Middleware</dt>
                <dd>
                  <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade HA middleware is protected by a process
                    monitor that uses death process notification to detect and respawn critical HA
                    processes.</p>
                </dd>
              </dlentry>
            </dl>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Performance Management Extensions</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The Ceilometer service in the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade features improved
              performance, scalability, and usability. It has been extended to support a
              CSV-formatted file backend that provides a more traditional Telco Northbound interface
              for performance management.<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Heat Extensions</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>The OpenStack Heat orchestration service is enhanced to
              include:<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <ul id="ul_n5s_kbh_tp">
              <li>
                <p>Support for several missing resource types in the public reference
                  implementation</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Helpful example templates illustrating real reference scenarios</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Virtual Machine Performance</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade provides an improved execution environment for
              virtual machines that contributes to their overall performance when deployed on the
              compute nodes in the KVM region. Enhancements to the execution environment
              include:<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <ul id="ul_rx5_gfs_nn">
              <li>
                <p>Low-latency, bounded delivery of virtual interrupts, and availability of
                  low-latency high resolution timers. </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Option to allocate 2 MB or 1 GB huge memory pages to reduce swapping and TLB
                  lookup misses.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Improved resource tracking of VMs that use dedicated CPUs, to ensure successful
                  migration and evacuation.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Support for affining guest NUMA nodes to specific host NUMA nodes.</p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>Capability to specify specific CPU models to be used by a virtual machine in
                  order to leverage advanced features of the CPU architecture.</p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Guest VLANs</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade guests can make use of VLANs to encapsulate IP
              traffic from a single or multiple IP subnets on a virtual Ethernet interface. This
              capability facilitates the porting of current user applications running on dedicated
              physical servers using VLANs to a virtualized
              environment.<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade tenants can define multiple IP subnets on a single
              tenant network, get their traffic encapsulated on VLAN IDs of their choice, and still
              benefit from the underlying functionality provided by the AVS and the overall
              virtualized network infrastructure.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Ethernet Interface Types</b>
          </dt>
          <dd>
            <p>You can connect a VM directly to a physical interface using PCI passthrough or
              SR-IOV. You can choose either method by selecting <codeph>pci-sriov</codeph> or
                <codeph>pci-passthrough</codeph> as the network type when creating interfaces.
              <!--From WR Admin Guide.--></p>
            <p><b>PCI Passthrough</b>. A passthrough Ethernet interface is a physical PCI Ethernet
              NIC on a compute node to which a virtual machine is granted direct access. This
              minimizes packet processing delays but at the same time demands special operational
              considerations. For all purposes, a PCI passthrough interface behaves as if it were
              physically attached to the virtual machine.</p>
            <p>Instructions for configuring SR-IOV are available after for installation, see <xref
                href="../Installation/CGH-2-install-pci-pass.dita#topic10581">Configuring
                PCI-Passthrough</xref></p>
            <p><b>SR-IOV</b>. A Single-Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) Ethernet interface is a
              physical PCI Ethernet NIC that implements hardware-based virtualization mechanisms to
              expose multiple virtual network interfaces that can be used by one or more virtual
              machines simultaneously.</p>
            <p>When compared with a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface, an SR-IOV Ethernet
              interface: <!--From WR admin--><ul id="ul_b3l_y2r_5t">
                <li>Provides benefits similar to those of a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface,
                  including lower latency packet processing;</li>
                <li>scales up more easily in a virtualized environment by providing multiple Virtual
                  Functions (VF) that can be attached to multiple virtual machine interfaces;</li>
                <li>shares the same limitations, including the lack of support for LAG, QoS, ACL,
                  and live migration;</li>
                <li>has the same requirements regarding the VLAN configuration of the access
                  switches;</li>
                <li>provides a similar configuration workflow when used on HP Helion OpenStack
                  Carrier Grade.</li>
              </ul></p>
            <p>Instructions for configuring SR-IOV are available after for installation, see <xref
                href="../Installation/CGH-2-install-sr-iov.dita#topic10581">Configuring
                SR-IOV</xref>.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt><b>Power Management</b></dt>
          <dd>
            <p>A cloud orchestration service that monitors and manages the resource usage on the
              compute nodes to power down servers during periods of low usage. This service
              contributes to saving power and operational costs.<!--From the WR admin guide--></p>
            <p>By continuously monitoring the resource usage, the power management service can de-fragment 
              the service cloud by live-migrating virtual machine instances onto a smaller set of compute nodes. 
              Unused hosts can then be manually powered down.</p>
            <p>As the cloud usage levels rise, unused compute nodes can be manually powered on to host new virtual machine instances.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section>
  </body>  
</topic>
