<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1771">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Helion Lifecycle Management (HLM) Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/Overview/carrier-grade-overview-hlm.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/hlm/overview/--></p>
<!-- From http://wiki.hpcloud.net/display/core/Helion+Lifecycle+Management+Root -->
<p>Helion Lifecycle Management (HLM) is an application that is used to deploy HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade and can be used for ongoing operations and maintenance of the system.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Physical Node Preparation.</b> You can use HLM to configure nodes prior to installation of a base operating system, including node discovery/inventory, BIOS configuration, (specifically setting PXE boot on primary interface), GRUB settings, RAID setup for local disks, iLO/IPMI set up and firmware upgrades.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>OS Install.</b> You can use HLM take a PXE bootable node and installs a base operating system.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Cloud Configuration.</b> You can provide detailed information about the cloud topology, such as the structure of control plane, assignment of services to nodes, and service configuration. You can also specify environment-specific configurations.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>OS Configuration.</b> HLM can automatically execute operating system configuration values, such as NIC assignments, NTP settings, DNS settings, NIC bonding, sysctl settings, VLAN creation etc. HLM uses the Ansible data model output and HLM server playbooks to automatically apply the per-node configurations.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Helion Operation &amp; Maintenance.</b> HLM is responsible for the deploy, upgrade and maintenance lifecycle of the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade system.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1771"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
