---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174;: Preview Agreement"
permalink: /helion/openstack/eula/
product: commercial

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/glossary/">&#9664; PREV | <a href="/helion/openstack/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/3rd-party-license-agreements/"> NEXT &#9654;</a> </p>

# Preview Agreement
 This Preview Agreement (the "Agreement") states the terms between  you ("You" or "Your")  and Hewlett-Packard Company and its subsidiaries ("HP") for the HP Helion OpenStack&reg; Software (defined below) that You download from HP’s website, as of the date of receipt of the Software (the "Effective Date").  By downloading, copying, or using the Software You agree to this Agreement.  If You do not agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, do not download, install, copy, or use the Software.

1.     Software. HP shall provide the object code version of the HP Helion OpenStack software product listed below and related documentation, including presentations or other media (collectively the "Software"), for the sole purpose of enabling You to internally test and evaluate the Software (collectively, defined as "Use").
2.     Term and Termination.  This term of this Agreement ("Term") will begin on the Effective Date and will terminate as provided below, unless earlier terminated as provided in this Agreement. Your rights under this Agreement terminate if You do not comply with the terms of this Agreement.  HP may terminate this Agreement immediately at any time in its sole discretion.  Upon the expiration of the Term or any earlier termination of this Agreement, You shall promptly remove all copies or destroy all copies of the Software in Your possession.   
3.     License. HP hereby licenses You to Use the Software, royalty-free, during the Term. This license is non-transferable, non-sublicenseable, non-exclusive, limited and revocable.  To the extent the Software is subject to any third party license terms or the terms of an open source license for open source code, then those third party license terms or open source licenses shall govern with respect to that subject Software; otherwise, the terms of this Agreement shall govern with regard to the Software.  Additional license authorizations are available at:   http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/openstack/3rd-party-license-agreements/.
4.     Restrictions on Use. You will comply with all installation requirements provided by HP.  You acknowledge that the Software may contain bugs or defects.  Your right to use the Software is specifically limited to the rights as described in this Agreement. No intellectual property license, and no other license or transfer of title or ownership of any kind is granted. Except as permitted by law, You shall not reverse engineer, disassemble, decompile, copy, distribute or modify the Software or provide access to the Software to a third party. You may not use Software to provide products or services to third parties.
5.     Future Availability.  HP may at any time and without notice choose not to release a general availability versions of the Software,  or, even if released, to alter prices, features, specifications, capabilities, functions, release dates, availability, or other characteristics of the Software. 
6.     Confidentiality of Information.  You acknowledge and agree that all information pertaining to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and certain aspects of the Software that are indicated as confidential by HP are HP’s proprietary and confidential information. As such, You shall protect the confidentiality of such information  until such information is made public by HP, using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized use, dissemination, or publication of such information as parties use to protect their own confidential information of a like nature.   You shall not make public any information, reports or test results obtained pursuant to use of the Software under this Agreement without HP’s prior consent.
7.     Support.   HP is not required to provide You with technical support.  Any technical support HP does provide to You shall be at HP’s sole discretion and is provided "As Is". Please refer to the documentation for installation or technical questions. You assume full responsibility for the effective operation and for correcting any errors within and created by software provided under this Agreement.
8.     Disclaimer of Warranties. You accepts the Software "AS IS", with any errors or defects. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE SOFTWARE HAS NOT COMPLETED HP'S FULL QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM AND MAY HAVE ERRORS OR DEFECTS. HP MAKES NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE, AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
9.     Limitation of Liability. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER LAW, HP WILL HAVE NO OBLIGATION OR LIABILITY (WHETHER ARISING IN CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, PRODUCT LIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE) FOR ANY DIRECT, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LIABILITIES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF INCOME, REVENUE,  GOODWILL, REPUTATION OR SAVINGS, LOSS OR UNAVAILABILITY OF OR DAMAGE TO DATA OR SOFTWARE RESTORATION), EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LIABILITIES, ARISING UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
10.     Feedback. You agree that HP shall have all right, title and interest in and to any feedback, Software test results or suggestions regarding the Software ("Feedback") that You propose or furnish to HP.   HP at its discretion may choose not to use or implement any Feedback in the Software. You shall execute any documents, and otherwise cooperate with HP at HP's expense, as necessary to enable HP to protect such rights.  You shall not register or use any mark or internet domain name that contains HP’s trademarks.   
11.     Assignment. You shall not assign or otherwise transfer any rights or obligations under this Agreement without prior written consent of HP. Any such assignments or transfers will terminate Your rights under this Agreement. 
12.     Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the state of New York, U.S.A., excluding rules as to choice and conflicts of law.  
13.     Global Trade Compliance.  You agree to comply with the trade-related laws and regulations of the U.S. and other national governments. You will not export, import or otherwise transfer the Software provided under this Agreement except as authorized by this Agreement, and You will be responsible for obtaining any required export or import authorizations. You confirm that You are not located in a country that is subject to trade control sanctions (currently Cuba, Iran, N. Korea, N. Sudan, and Syria) and further agree that You will not retransfer the Software to any such country. HP may suspend its performance under this Agreement to the extent required by laws applicable to either party.
14.     Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. Any representation, promise, or condition not explicitly set forth in this Agreement shall not be binding on either party. Any amendments to this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the authorized representatives of each party.
15.     Software Specific Term and Use Restrictions. The chart below shows by Software name the Term and any use restriction.

 * Software Name &ndash; HP Helion OpenStack&reg;
 * Term &ndash; expires November 30, 2014
 * Use Restriction &ndash; Evaluation as described
####OpenStack trademark attribution
*The OpenStack Word Mark and OpenStack Logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.*

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>
