<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qpj_lwg_ws">
  <title>Beta 0 Hardware Setup Notes</title>
  <body>
    <note>Please note that this is a beta version of the documentation which is still in development before its official release. The information contained herein is provided “as is”, confidential, and proprietary information and is provided only under the terms of the applicable non-disclosure agreement.</note>
    <p/>
    <p>The following is a list of hardware and setup items you must consider before beginning the
      installation.</p>
    <p>
      <ol id="ol_km5_zwg_ws">
        <li>Note that all disks on the systems will be erased via the installation process.</li>
        <li>The machine types should be homogeneous.</li>
        <li>To set up the deployment network, note that <ul>
            <li>The network will need to be set up with 3 routed VLANs 1 untagged and 2 tagged
              (external and svc) with associated CIDRs </li>
            <li>
              <p>The machine hosting the deployer, and all baremetal systems have to be connected to
                a management network.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Nodes on this management network must be able to reach the iLO subsystem of each
                baremetal systems to enable host reboots as part of the install process. The HP
                Helion OpenStack architecture requires that the IPMI network is a separate network
                and that a route exists from management network to the IPMI network for iLO
                access.</p>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
                <li>Ensure network interfaces that are not used for PXE boot are disabled in the
          BIOS to prevent PXE boot attempts from those devices.</li>
        <li>The deployer node needs to be a dedicated node in Beta0</li>
        <li>Gather MAC addresses of your hardware and IP addresses you wish to assign for inclusion
          in configuration files</li>
        <li>Change or confirm that your hardare is set to legacy BIOS
          setting.<?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?> If you have
          UEFI instead of a BIOS, you need to switch to legacy BIOS.<?oxy_custom_end?> If using HP
          hardware, you can make these changes in the iLO console in system utilities |
          BIOS/Platform Configuration | boot options. Otherwise use your IPMI management console or
          command-line interface (CLI).
          <?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?>Advanced iLO license
          needed to use the iLO console for advanced configurations. Otherwise use the command
          line.<?oxy_custom_end?></li>
        <li>Set array configuration: In HPSAA (HP Smart Storage Adminstrator), configure the logcal
          volume setup. Note that<ul>
            <li>The deployer node needs no partitions. You can create a single logical disk from all
              available disks on deployer node with RAID 5 configuration if desired.</li>
            <li>You will need four local disks on nodes in the control plane (for root OS and Swift)
              are required.</li>
            <li>Swift cannot currently address logical volumes.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Enable PXE booting, as HP Linux for HP Helion OpenStack will be installed on these blank
          nodes during installation. Adjust boot order for the control plane and storage nodes. For
          the deployer node this can be CD ROM with hard drives designated last in the boot
          order.</li>
        <li>Synchronize the time on all nodes manually. NTP will be installed later.</li>
        <li><?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?>Turn off DHCP????
            <?oxy_custom_end?><ul id="ul_qvd_swh_ws">
            <li>
              <p>If you have other DHCP servers on the same network as your system, you must ensure
                that the DHCP server does not hand out IP addresses to your physical nodes as they
                PXE boot.</p>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>If you are not configuring with Swift for whatever reason, including lack of hardware,
          comment out the Swift config entries in ccp.yml</li>
        <li>It is possible to add additional VSA and compute nodes. The default is 1 of each.</li>
        <li>You may assign server roles to each or your nodes manually, or allow the installer to
          assign them.</li>
        <li>Any inconsistent or unworkable configuration choices will be flagged by the installer,
          which will provide feedback explaining the issues. Changes can then be made and the config
          processor can be rerun with the new values. <b>Note,</b> the config processor must be
          rerun after making config changes. Users can run Chef or Puppet for a comfiguration
          management solution if desired.</li>
        <li>Some Pre and Post install checks will run automatically: The installer will test
          configuration, test for ssh access to each node, and check that installed services are
          running, for example.</li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
