<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic12031">
<title>Beta 0 Release Notes</title>
<body>
<p>Thank you for your interest in HP Helion OpenStack.  This document provides an overview of the features contained within HP Helion OpenStack version 2.0 Beta 0, including known issues and workarounds, and where to find further information on the product release:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Features in HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 Beta 0</li>
  <li>Known Issues in this Release</li>
  <li>For Further Information</li>
</ul>
<section id="Features"> <title>Features in HP Helion OpenStack 2.0</title>
<p><b>Updated HP Helion OpenStack Services</b> - We have included the core set of OpenStack services from the <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/ReleaseNotes/Kilo" scope="external" format="html">Kilo release</xref>.</p>
<p><b>New Neutron Extensions for Detailed Network Architectures</b> - We have implemented new networking extensions for load balancing, firewalls, and VPN.  Here is a description of each of these:</p>
<ul>
<li>LBaaS (Load-Balancing-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a load balancing feature set. Helion OpenStack 2.0 includes the V2 version which allows implementation uses haproxy but 3rd party Load Balancers can be integrated as well. In case that a 3rd party driver doesn’t exist for LBaaS V2 installing LBaaS V1 instead of V2 is supported.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>FWaaS (FireWall-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a firewall eature set. The included reference implementation is using iptables to block traffic but 3rd party Firewalls can be integrated with this extension into Helion OpenStack as well.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>VPNaaS (Virtual-Private-Network-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a vpn feature set. It allows for encrypted traffic between two routers in (potentially) different datacenters hence supporting secure multi Availability Zone architectures for customers.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p><b>New Neutron Features for Greater Performance</b> - We have included native support for the following features in our Neutron offering:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>NIC bonding with multiple modes will allow you to setup a highly available and performant network infrastructure.</li>
    <li>Multi-Network support will allow you to bridge multiple external physical networks to a Neutron network.  This will enable you to dictate the path taken by the data in the physical network outside of your cloud deployment.</li>
    <li>Network separation (both physical and VLAN) will allow you to segregate traffic by type.  In the cloud today, traffic is separated into management, tenant, external, and services channels.</li>
  </ul>
<p><b>Monasca-based Monitoring with OpsConsole GUI</b> - Monasca is a multi-tenant, scalable, fault-tolerant monitoring-as-a-service, HTTP-based service. It uses a REST API for high-speed metrics processing and querying, and has a streaming alarm and notification engine. There is also a custom-built OpsConsole for GUI access.  In the Helion OpenStack 2.0 release, the OpenStack monitoring standard, Monasca, is supported as the Helion OpenStack monitoring solution with the following exceptions (which are not implemented):</p>
<ul>
<li>Transform Engine</li>
<li>Events Engine </li>
<li>Anomaly and Prediction Engine</li>
</ul>
<p><b>New Baremetal Installation Kit</b> - </p>
  <ul>
    <li>You supply the cloud configuration you want based on our <xref href="supportedconfigs.dita">Supported Configurations</xref> and the baremetal installer will setup your environment.</li>
    <li>Manage the different phases of your cloud deployment with ease</li>
  </ul>
<p><b>Backup and Restore Capabilities for the Control Plane</b> - Allows you to backup and recover your Helion OpenStack environment with RPO=0.</p>
</section>
  </body>
</topic>