<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic12031">
<title><b>Beta 0 What's In The Build</b></title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Joel B"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 2.0"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
  <note>This document is under development.</note>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack is a commercial-grade distribution of OpenStack the leading open source cloud computing platform. This distribution, backed by HP, enables customers to more easily build, manage, and use open-source based hybrid clouds in a resilient, maintainable platform. HP Helion OpenStack enables cost-effective scalability of IT services and business agility and, as part of the HP Helion portfolio, it is backed by a wide range of related cloud products, services, and professional support.</p>
<p>In the Helion OpenStack 2.0 release, these are the features you can expect:</p>
<ul>
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic12031/Services">HP Helion OpenStack Services</xref>
     <ul>
       <li>Full set of Kilo-based OpenStack services</li>
       <li>LBaaS</li>
       <li>FWaaS</li>
       <li>VPNaaS</li>
     </ul>
   </li>
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic12031/BaremetalInstall">Baremetal Install Kit</xref> that includes:
      <ul>
        <li>Uses Config Process v2.0</li>
        <li>updating the configuration</li>
        <li>adding nodes</li>
        <li>adding VSA, etc</li>
      </ul>
   </li> 
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic12031/Networking">Network Planning</xref>
    <ul>
      <li>NIC bonding</li>
      <li>Multi-NIC support</li>
      <li>Network separation (including VLAN)</li>
    </ul>
  </li>  
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic12031/OpsManagement">Operational Management</xref>
    <ul>
      <li>Control Plane Backup and Restore</li>
      <li>Monitoring</li>
      <li>OpsConsole</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>VSA as a Cinder block storage provider</li>
  <li>Basic NTP and DNS integration</li>
  <li>TLS only on external API</li>
</ul>
<section id="Services"> <title>HP Helion OpenStack Services</title>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Service</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Compute Operations (Nova)</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>For more information, see: <xref
                  href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS" scope="external"
                  format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Nova</xref></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Block Storage (Cinder)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Object Storage (Swift)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Network Operations (Neutron)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Identity Operations (Keystone)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Image Operations (Glance)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Orchestration (Heat)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Bare-Metal Provisioning (Ironic)</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Sherpa</entry>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Ceilometer</entry>
              <entry>HP Helion OpenStack Metering, based on Ceilometer, takes specified measurements
                of both physical and virtual resources, including physical servers and network
                devices such as switches and firewalls. The service can be configured to record
                data, trigger specific action when a pre-defined condition is met, or both.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>LBaaS (Load-Balancing-as-a-Service)</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>LBaaS (Load-Balancing-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a load
                  balancing feature set. Helion OpenStack 2.0 includes the V2 version which allows
                  flexible load balancing of multiple ports on one VIP. The included reference
                  implementation uses haproxy but 3rd party Load Balancers can be integrated as
                  well. In case that a 3rd party driver doesn’t exist for LBaaS V2 installing LBaaS
                  V1 instead of V2 is supported.</p>
                <p>For more information, see: <xref
                    href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS" scope="external"
                    format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS</xref></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>FWaaS (FireWall-as-a-Service)</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>FWaaS (FireWall-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a firewall
                  feature set. The included reference implementation is using iptables to block
                  traffic but 3rd party Firewalls can be integrated with this extension into Helion
                  OpenStack as well.</p>
                <p>For more information, see: <xref
                    href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS" scope="external"
                    format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS</xref></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>VPNaaS (Virtual-Private-Network-as-a-Service)</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>VPNaaS (Virtual-Private-Network-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that
                  introduces a vpn feature set. It allows for encrypted traffic between two routers
                  in (potentially) different datacenters hence supporting secure multi az
                  architectures for customers.</p>
                <p>For more information, see: <xref
                    href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS" scope="external"
                    format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS</xref></p>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
</section>
<section id="BaremetalInstall"> <title>Baremetal Install Kit</title>
</section>
<section id="Networking">
      <title>Network Planning</title>
  <ul>
    <li>NIC bonding: Helion OpenStack 2.0 has native support for NIC bonding.</li>
    <li>Multi-NIC support</li>
    <li>Network separation (including VLAN)</li>
  </ul>
</section>
  <section id="OpsManagement">
    <title>Operational Management</title>
<ul>
  <li>Control Plane Backup and Restore: Allows you to backup and recover your Helion OpenStack environment with RPO=0.</li>
  <li>Monitoring</li>
  <li>OpsConsole: The HP Helion OpenStack OpsConsole provides a graphical user interface (GUI) that allows you to interact and manage your Monitoring setup.</li>
</ul>
</section>
  </body>
</topic>
