<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic12031">
<title><b>What's New in Helion OpenStack 2.0 Beta 0</b></title>
<body>
<note type="attention">Please note that this is a beta version of the documentation which is still in development before its official release. The information contained herein is provided “as is”, confidential, and proprietary information and is provided only under the terms of the applicable non-disclosure agreement.</note>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack is a commercial-grade distribution of OpenStack the leading open source cloud computing platform. This distribution, backed by HP, enables customers to more easily build, manage, and use open-source based hybrid clouds in a resilient, maintainable platform. HP Helion OpenStack enables cost-effective scalability of IT services and business agility and, as part of the HP Helion portfolio, it is backed by a wide range of related cloud products, services, and professional support.</p>
<p>In the Helion OpenStack 2.0 release, these are the features you can expect:</p>
<section id="OpenStackServices"> <title>Updated HP Helion OpenStack Services</title>
<p>We have included the core set of OpenStack services from the <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/ReleaseNotes/Kilo" scope="external" format="html">Kilo release</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="NeutronExtension"> <title>New Neutron Extensions for Detailed Network Architectures</title>
<p>We have implemented new networking extensions for load balancing, firewalls, and VPN.  Here is a description of each of these:</p>
<ul>
<li>LBaaS (Load-Balancing-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a load balancing feature set. Helion OpenStack 2.0 includes the V2 version which allows implementation uses haproxy but 3rd party Load Balancers can be integrated as well. In case that a 3rd party driver doesn’t exist for LBaaS V2 installing LBaaS V1 instead of V2 is supported.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/LBaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>FWaaS (FireWall-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a firewall eature set. The included reference implementation is using iptables to block traffic but 3rd party Firewalls can be integrated with this extension into Helion OpenStack as well.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/FWaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>VPNaaS (Virtual-Private-Network-as-a-Service) is a Neutron extension that introduces a vpn feature set. It allows for encrypted traffic between two routers in (potentially) different datacenters hence supporting secure multi Availability Zone architectures for customers.
<ul>
<li>For more information, see: <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS" scope="external" format="html">https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/VPNaaS</xref></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="NeutronFeatures"> <title>New Neutron Features for Greater Flexibility</title>
<p>We have included native support for the following features in our Neutron offering:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>NIC bonding with user-defined LACP modes</li>
    <li>Multi-NIC support</li>
    <li>Network separation (physical or VLAN)</li>
  </ul>
</section>
<section id="Monitoring"> <title>Monasca-based Monitoring with OpsConsole GUI</title>
<p>Monasca is a multi-tenant, scalable, fault-tolerant monitoring-as-a-service, HTTP-based service. It uses a REST API for high-speed metrics processing and querying, and has a streaming alarm and notification engine. There is also a custom-built OpsConsole for GUI access.</p>
<p>In the Helion OpenStack 2.0 release, the OpenStack monitoring standard, Monasca, is supported as the Helion OpenStack monitoring solution with the following exceptions (which are not implemented):</p>
<ul>
<li>Transform Engine</li>
<li>Events Engine </li>
<li>Anomaly and Prediction Engine</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="BaremetalInstall"> <title>New Baremetal Install Kit</title>
  <ul>
    <li>Uses Config Process v2.0</li>
    <li>updating the configuration</li>
    <li>adding nodes</li>
    <li>adding VSA, etc</li>
  </ul>
</section>
<section id="OpsManagement"> <title>Backup and Restore Capabilities for the Control Plane</title>
<ul>
  <li>Allows you to backup and recover your Helion OpenStack environment with RPO=0.</li>
</ul>
</section>
  <section id="OtherFeatures"><title>Other Features</title>
    <ul>
  <li>VSA as a Cinder block storage provider</li>
  <li>Basic NTP and DNS integration</li>
  <li>Secure TLS communication on the external-facing APIs</li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  </body>
</topic>