<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3229">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Changing the NTP Server Configuration</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-ntp.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/system/config/ntp/--></p>
<!-- modeled after Wind River Admin Guide -->
<p>You can change the NTP server addresses defined for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade at any time after installation.</p>
<p>During installation, the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is configured with up to three NTP server IP addresses. You change these addresses using the <xref type="section" href="#topic3229/horizon">Horizon dashboard</xref> or <xref type="section" href="#topic3229/cli">the CLI</xref>.</p>
<p>Before changing NTP server addresses, review the Fault Management page and ensure that any existing system alarms are cleared.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> For the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade system to use FQDN servers instead of IPv4 servers, at least one valid DNS server must be specified.</p>
<section id="horizon"> <title>Changing the IP using the Horizon dashboard</title>
<ol>
<li>
          <xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita">Launch the HP Helion
            OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.<ul>
            <li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change,
              either: the Non-KVM region or the KVM region.</li>
          </ul><p>The <b>System Configuration</b> pane is available from the System Panel section of
            the Admin menu.</p></li>
<li>Select the <b>NTP</b> tab.<p>The <b>NTP</b> page appears, showing the currently defined NTP
            servers and their IP addresses.</p></li>
<li>Click <b>Edit NTP</b>.<p>The <b>Edit NTP</b> dialog box appears.</p></li>
<li>Replace the NTP Server IP addresses or names with different ones as required.<p>If you specify
            the NTP servers using FQDNs you must have at least one valid DNS server defined on your
            system.</p></li>
<li>Click <b>Save</b>.<p>This raises major alarms against the controllers and services. You can view
            the alarms on the Fault Management page.</p></li>
<li>Lock then unlock the controllers to clear the alarms.<p>For more information, see <xref
              href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-ntp.dita">Locking and Unlocking a
              System</xref>.</p><p>Wait for the host to become available. It is updated with the new
            NTP server addresses, and its error message is cleared.</p></li>
<li>Perform a swact on the active controller.<p>Click <b>More</b> &gt; <b>Swact Host</b> for the
            active controller.</p></li>
<li>
          <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita">Lock
            the original controller</xref>, which is in standby mode.<p>Wait for the lock operation
            to be completed.</p></li>
<li>Unlock the original controller.<p>Wait for it to become available. It is updated with the new
            NTP server addresses, and its error message is cleared.</p></li>
<li>Make sure that the 250.001 Configuration out-of-date alarms are cleared for both
          controllers.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="cli"> <title>Changing the IP using the CLI</title>
<p>To view the existing NTP server configuration, use the following command.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>system ntp-show
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>To change the NTP server IP addresses, use the following command syntax. The <codeph>ntpservers</codeph> option takes a comma-delimited list of NTP server names.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>system ntp-modify \
ntpservers=server_1[,server_2][,server_3] action=apply
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>For example:</p>
<codeblock><codeph>system ntp-modify \
ntpservers=0.north-america.pool.ntp.org,\
0.north-america.pool.ntp.org,0.north-america.pool.ntp.org \
action=apply
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>After changing the NTP server configuration, you must lock and unlock both controllers. This process requires a <xref href="../HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#swact" type="section"  >swact on the controllers</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3229"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
