<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3610">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Adding an Infrastructure Network Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-cli.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/system/config/cli/--></p>
<!-- modeled after Wind River Admin Guide -->
<p>If an infrastructure network is not installed during initial configuration, you can add one later using the CLI.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> On a cluster with an infrastructure network, each host must have an infrastructure interface before it can be unlocked. Ensure that all hosts have the required hardware.</p>
<p>For a system with an LVM storage backend, the infrastructure network is optional. It can be used to offload the internal management network on clusters with many compute nodes.</p>
<p>You can view the existing infrastructure network configuration using the following command on the active controller.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>system infra-show
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>You can add an infrastructure network after initial installation. For this operation, all nodes except the active controller must be locked. During the change, the nodes cannot be unlocked until the new configuration is applied to both controllers. In addition, before a node can be unlocked, an infrastructure interface must be configured on the host.</p>
<ol>
<li>Use the following command to lock all hosts except the active
        controller:<codeblock><codeph>system host-lock hostname
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Use the following command to add an infrastructure interface on the standby controller,
        specifying a name for the network and the port to use for the network connection. To
        identify the port to use for an infrastructure network, consult your configuration plan.<p>
          <b>Note:</b> You can also add an infrastructure network to a shared interface as a
          VLAN-tagged
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-if-add -n \
infra hostname interfacename port
</codeph></codeblock><p>For
          example:</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-if-add -n \
infra controller-1 infra0 eth3
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Use the following command to add the same infrastructure network on the active
          controller.<codeblock><codeph>system host-if-add -n \
infra controller-0 infra0 eth3
</codeph></codeblock><p>For
          example:</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-if-add -n \
infra controller-0 infra0 eth3
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Use the following command to specify the infrastructure
          subnet.<codeblock><codeph>system infra-modify \
infra_subnet=subnet/mask action=apply
</codeph></codeblock><p>For
          example:</p><codeblock><codeph>system infra-modify \
infra_subnet=192.168.205.0/24 action=apply
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Use the following command to reboot the standby
          controller.<codeblock><codeph>system host-reboot controller-1
</codeph></codeblock><p>This
          updates its configuration.</p><p>Wait for the standby controller to reboot. To monitor its
          status, use the following
          command.</p><codeblock><codeph>watch -n 5 system host-list
</codeph></codeblock><p>This
          displays a refreshed host list every five seconds. Monitor the output until the standby
          controller is shown as locked and online. To stop monitoring, enter</p><codeblock><codeph>CTRL-C.
</codeph></codeblock><p>
          <b>Caution:</b> To prevent potential service conflicts due to inconsistent controller
          network configurations, do not unlock the standby controller until the active controller
          is also rebooted .</p></li>
<li>Use the following command to reboot the active
          controller.<codeblock><codeph>sudo reboot
</codeph></codeblock><p>The system is going down
          for reboot NOW!</p><p>Wait for the controller to reboot.</p></li>
<li>Use the following command to log in to the active controller and become the Keystone admin
        user.<codeblock><codeph>/etc/nova/openrc
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Unlock the standby
        controller.<codeblock><codeph>system host-unlock controller-1
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Add infrastructure interfaces to each compute node.<p>For each node, use the following
          command.</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-if-add -n \
infra hostname networkname port
</codeph></codeblock><p>You
          can now unlock the compute nodes. This clears any <codeph>Configuration
            out-of-date</codeph> errors.</p><p>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic3610/top"> Return to Top </xref>
        </p></li>
</ol>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
