<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2101">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): System Configuration Management</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm>"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm>"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/system/config/--></p>
<!-- modeled after Wind River Admin Guide -->
<p>You can make changes to the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade initial configuration at any time after installation.</p>
<p>The initial configuration of the networking and interfaces is defined during software installation. After installation, you can make changes using the web administration interface or the CLI.</p>
<p>For most types of changes, you can do this without interrupting system operations.</p>
<p>You can change the initial configuration as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>Reconfigure aspects of the External OAM network, including the subnet, controller IP addresses, gateway IP address, and floating IP address.</li>
<li>Change the DNS server IP addresses.</li>
<li>Change the NTP server IP addresses.</li>
<li>Change the disk allocations for database storage, image storage, backup storage, and Cinder volume storage.</li>
<li>
<p>Add an infrastructure network if one is not already configured.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> A service interruption is required to add an infrastructure network; all nodes except the active controller must be locked. In addition, you must use the CLI to make this change.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>To make changes using the web administration interface, you must be logged in as the admin user. Use the System Configuration pane, is available from the System Panel section of the Admin menu.</p>
<p>To make changes using the CLI, you must be logged in as the <codeph>root</codeph> user on the active controller, and sourced as the Keystone admin user.</p>
<p>See the following topics:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-alarms.dita" >Host Status and Alarms During System Configuration Changes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-ext-OAM.dita" >Changing the External Network (OAM) IP Configuration</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-dns.dita" >Changing the DNS Server Configuration</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-ntp.dita" >Changing the NTP Server Configuration</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-allotment.dita" >Changing Storage Space Allotments on the Controller</xref>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Config/carrier-grade-admin-system-config-cli.dita" >Adding an Infrastructure Network Using the CLI</xref>
</p>

<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2101"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
