<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2176">
  <title>HPE Helion CloudSystem</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Data Center Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Kathleen J."/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>HPE Helion CloudSystem delivers an enterprise private cloud in HPE Converged Infrastructure environments.  HPE Helion CloudSystem is available as standalone software that supports a multiple vendor hardware environment or as an integrated infrastructure with HPE ConvergedSystem.</p>
      <section>
      <p>HPE Helion CloudSystem consists of two offerings.
      <ul>
      <li>HPE Helion CloudSystem Foundation is based on the HPE Helion OpenStack distribution of OpenStack cloud software and includes Helion Development Platform and DNS as a Service.</li>
      
        <li>HPE Helion CloudSystem Enterprise expands on CloudSystem Foundation through the addition
            of HPE Cloud Service Automation and HPE Operations Orchestration. CloudSystem Enterprise
            automates the integration of servers, storage, networking, security, and monitoring
            capabilities throughout the infrastructure service delivery lifecycle of a virtualized
            data center. <p>HPE Helion CloudSystem Enterprise offers additional design tools and
              provider integration, including OpenStack, HPE OneView, and Amazon Web Services through
              HPE Helion Eucalyptus. With the Marketplace Portal, users have secure access to these
              services. </p></li> 
      </ul></p>

      </section><section><title>HPE Helion CloudSystem Technical Information</title>
        <p>See the <xref href="http://www.hp.com/go/cloudsystem/docs" format="html" scope="external">Enterprise Information Library</xref> for HPE Helion CloudSystem, HPE CSA, and HPE Operations
        Orchestration technical information and white papers, including:</p>
      <sl>
     <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Administrator Guide </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Command Line Interface Guide</sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Installation Guide </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Network Planning Guide </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Release Notes </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Support Matrix </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem 9.0 Troubleshooting Guide </sli>
        <sli>HPE Helion CloudSystem Operations Console Help</sli>
      </sl> 
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
