<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>


<!DOCTYPE topic   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >


<topic id="jow1404333563834" xml:lang="en-us">


    <title>Linux User Accounts</title>


    <shortdesc>Linux user accounts are available on all hosts for administration, operation, and
        general hosting purposes. They have no relation with the cloud user tenant accounts created
        using the web management interface, the CLI commands, or the APIs.</shortdesc>


    <prolog>


        <author>Pedro Sanchez</author>


        <author>Jim Owens</author>


    </prolog>


    <body>


        <p>You can log in remotely as a Linux user by using an SSH connection and specifying the OAM
            floating IP address as the target. This establishes a connection to the currently active
            controller. If the OAM floating IP address moves from one controller node to another,
            the SSH session is blocked. To ensure access to a particular controller regardless of
            its current role, specify the controller physical address instead.</p>


        <section id="section_N10025_N1001D_N10001">
            <title>The wrsroot Account</title>
            <p>This is a local, per-host, account created automatically in the KVM region when a new
                host is provisioned. On controller nodes, this account is available even before the
                    <b>region_config</b> script is executed during the installation. </p>
            <p>The default initial password is <b>wrsroot</b>.</p>
            <ul id="ul_aqh_b41_pq">


                <li>
                    <p>The initial password must be changed immediately when you log in to
                            <b>controller-0</b> for the first time. For details, see <xref
                            href="http://docs-staging.hpcloud.com/DRAFT/#CarrierGrade/Installation/carrier-grade-install-pb-overview.html"
                            format="html" scope="external">Installing HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier
                            Grade</xref>..</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>After five consecutive unsuccessful login attempts, further attempts are
                        blocked for about five minutes.</p>
                </li>


            </ul>
            <p>Subsequent password changes must be executed on the active controller to ensure that
                they propagate to all other hosts in the cluster. Otherwise, they remain local to
                the host where they were executed, and are overwritten on the next reboot to match
                the password on the active controller.</p>
            <p>From the <b>wrsroot</b> account, you can execute commands requiring different
                privileges.</p>
            <ul id="ul_hlh_f2c_5p">


                <li>
                    <p>You can execute non-root level commands as a regular Linux user directly.</p>
                    <p>If you do not have sufficient privileges to execute a command as a regular
                        Linux user, you may receive a permissions error, or in some cases, the
                        command may be reported as not found.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>You can execute root-level commands as the <b>root</b> user.</p>
                    <p>To become the root user, use the <i>sudo</i> command to elevate your
                        privileges, followed by the command to be executed. </p>
                    <p>If a password is requested, provide the password for the <b>wrsroot</b>
                        account.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>You can execute OpenStack administrative commands as the Keystone
                            <b>admin</b> user. </p>
                    <p>Source the script <filepath>/etc/nova/openrc</filepath> while working on the
                        active controller to acquire Keystone administrative privileges.</p>
                    <codeblock><systemoutput>$ </systemoutput><userinput>source /etc/nova/openrc</userinput>


<systemoutput>[wrsroot@controller-0 ~(keystone_admin)]$ </systemoutput></codeblock>
                    <p>The system prompt changes to indicate the new acquired privileges.</p>
                    <note id="note_N100F4_N100C7_N1007A_N1002A_N10022_N10001">
                        <p>The default Keystone prompt includes the host name and the current
                            working path. For simplicity, this guide uses the following generic
                            prompt instead:</p>
                        <codeblock><systemoutput>~(keystone_admin)$ </systemoutput></codeblock>
                    </note>
                </li>


            </ul>
        </section>


        <section id="section_N10094_N1001D_N10001">
            <title>Local User Accounts</title>
            <p>You can manage regular Linux user accounts on any host in the cluster using standard
                Linux commands. New accounts created on one host are not automatically propagated to
                other hosts. </p>
            <p>Password changes are not enforced automatically on first login, and they are not
                propagated by the system (with the exception of the <b>wrsroot</b> account, for
                which passwords changed on the active controller are propagated to other hosts.) Any
                special considerations for these accounts, if any, must be configured manually.</p>
            <p>Local user accounts can be added to the <term>sudoers</term> list using the
                    <i>visudo</i> command. They can also source the script
                    <filepath>/etc/nova/openrc</filepath> to become OpenStack administrators when
                working on the active controller. </p>
        </section>


        <section id="section_N100E3_N1001A_N10001">
            <title>LDAP User Accounts</title>
            <p>You can create regular Linux user accounts using the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier
                Grade LDAP service. LDAP accounts are centrally managed; changes made on any host
                are propagated automatically to all hosts on the cluster. </p>
            <p>In other respects, LDAP user accounts behave as any local user account. They can be
                added to the sudoers list, and can acquire OpenStack administration credentials when
                executing on the active controller.</p>
            <p>LDAP user accounts share the following set of attributes:</p>
            <ul id="ul_d4q_g5c_5p">


                <li>
                    <p>The initial password is the name of the account.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>The initial password must be changed immediately upon first login.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>Requirements for new passwords include:</p>
                    <ul id="ul_ipq_g5c_5p">


                        <li>
                            <p>to be at least eight characters long</p>
                        </li>


                        <li>
                            <p>to have at least one lowercase character</p>
                        </li>


                        <li>
                            <p>to differ in at least three characters from the previous password</p>
                        </li>


                        <li>
                            <p>not to be evidently trivial to guess, such as a2345678, or a reversed
                                version of the old password</p>
                        </li>


                    </ul>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>Login sessions are logged out automatically after about 15 minutes of
                        inactivity.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>The accounts block following five consecutive unsuccessful login attempts.
                        They unblock automatically after a period of about five minutes.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>Home directories are created dynamically on first login. Note that home
                        directories for local user accounts are created when the accounts are
                        created.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>All authentication attempts are recorded on the file
                            <filepath>/var/log/auth.log</filepath> of the target host.</p>
                </li>


                <li>
                    <p>Home directories and passwords are backed up and restored by the system
                        backup utilities.</p>
                </li>


            </ul>
            <p>The following LDAP user accounts are available by default on newly deployed hosts,
                regardless of their personality:</p>
            <dl>


                <dlentry>


                    <dt>admin</dt>


                    <dd>
                        <p>A cloud administrative account, comparable in purpose to the default
                                <b>admin</b> account used in the web management interface.</p>
                        <p>This user account operates on a restricted Linux shell, with very limited
                            access to native Linux commands. However, the shell is preconfigured to
                            have administrative access to OpenStack commands, including the
                            available HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade CLI extensions.</p>
                    </dd>


                </dlentry>


                <dlentry>


                    <dt>operator</dt>


                    <dd>
                        <p>A host administrative account. It has access to all native Linux commands
                            and is included in the sudoers list.</p>
                    </dd>


                </dlentry>


            </dl>
            <p>For increased security, the <b>admin</b> and <b>operator</b> accounts must be used
                from the console ports of the hosts; no SSH access is allowed.</p>
        </section>


        <section id="section_N1019F_N1001D_N10001">
            <title>Managing LDAP User Accounts</title>
            <p>Although the scope of operations for the LDAP user accounts is local, that is, they
                operate on the target host exclusively, management of these accounts operates at the
                cluster level. This means that operations such as password change, and addition or
                removal of users, are applied to the entire cluster. For example, a password change
                executed while logged into controller-0, is effective immediately on all other hosts
                in the cluster.</p>
            <p>Centralized management is implemented using two LDAP servers, one running on each
                controller node. LDAP server synchronization is automatic using the native LDAP
                content synchronization protocol.</p>
            <p>A set of LDAP commands is available to operate on LDAP user accounts. The commands
                are installed in the directory <filepath>/usr/local/sbin</filepath>, and are
                available to any user account in the sudoers list. Included commands are
                    <i>lsldap</i>, <i>ldapadduser</i>, <i>ldapdeleteuser</i>, and several others
                starting with the prefix <i>ldap</i>. Use the command option <option>--help</option>
                on any command to display a brief help message, as illustrated below.</p>
            <codeblock><systemoutput>$ </systemoutput><userinput>ldapadduser --help</userinput>


<systemoutput>Usage : /usr/local/sbin/ldapadduser &lt;username&gt; &lt;groui | gid&gt; [uid]</systemoutput>


<systemoutput>$ </systemoutput><userinput>ldapdeleteuser --help</userinput>


<systemoutput>Usage : /usr/local/sbin/ldapdeleteuser &lt;username | uid&gt;</systemoutput></codeblock>
        </section>


    </body>


</topic>
