<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2059">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating, Editing, and Deleting Volumes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Volumes/carrier-grade.dashboard.volume.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/volume/create/--></p>
<p>Volumes are block devices that can be attached to instances.</p>
<section id="create-a-volume"> <title>Create a volume</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Volume</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Create Volume</b> dialog box, enter the relevant information for the volume:</p>

<ul>
<li>
              <b>Volume Name</b> - Enter a name for the volume </li>
<li>
              <b>Description</b> - Provide a brief description (optional). </li>
<li>
              <b>Volume Source</b> - Select one of the following options: <ul>
                <li>No source, empty volume - creates an empty volume and does not contain a file
                  system or a partition table </li>
                <li>Image - a new field for Use image as a source displays. You can select the image
                  from the list. </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
<li>
              <b>Size</b> - Enter the size of the volume in gigabytes </li>
<li>
              <b>Availability Zone</b> - Select the availability zone. By default, this value is set
              to 'any availability zone'. </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create Volume</b> to confirm.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="edit-a-volume"> <title>Edit a volume</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Under the <b>Actions</b> column, click <b>Edit Volume</b>, next to the volume you want to edit.    .</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Edit Volume</b> dialog box, modify the name and description.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Edit Volume</b> to confirm.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> You can <xref href="../Volumes/carrier-grade.dashboard.volume.extend.dita" >extend a volume</xref> by using the <b>Extend Volume</b> option available in the <b>More</b> drop-down list and entering the new value for volume size.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="delete-a-volume"> <title>Delete a volume</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the volume(s) that you want to delete.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Delete Volume</b> to confirm.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2059"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
