<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1940">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Attaching and Detaching Volume Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Volumes/carrier-grade.dashboard.volume.attach.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/volume/attach/--></p>
<p>After you've created one or more volumes, you can attach them to instances, one instance at a time.</p>
<p>You can view the status of a volume in the Volumes tab of the dashboard. The volume is either <b>Available</b> or <b>In-Use</b>. You can attach any volume that is available to an instance.</p>
<section id="attach-a-volume-to-an-instance"> <title>Attach a volume to an instance</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Volumes</b> screen, for the volume you want to attach, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Edit Attchments</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Manage Volume Attachments</b> dialog box, select an instance.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enter the name of the device from which the volume is accessible by the instance. (<b>Note:</b> The actual device name might differ from the volume name because of hypervisor settings.)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Attach Volume</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The dashboard shows the volume is In-Use and lists the instance to which the volume is now attached. You can now log in to the instance and mount, format, and use the disk.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> Not all of the <b>Action</b> menu items are available for an attached volume.</p>
</section>
<section id="detach-a-volume-from-a-vm-instance"> <title>Detach a volume from a VM instance</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Volumes</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Volumes</b> screen, for the volume you want to detach, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Edit Attchments</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Detach Volume</b> to confirm your changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The dashboard shows the volume is available.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1940/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
