<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pgq_mnw_dt">
  <title>Backup</title>
  <body>
    <section><title>Introduction </title><p>As of HP Helion OpenStack® 2.0 Beta 1, you must do the
        following: <ol>
          <li>Define what you want to backup.</li>
          <li>Define a mode for that backup. The following modes are available: <ul>
                            <li>fs (filesystem) (default)</li>
                            <li>mysql</li>
                            <li>sqlserver</li>
                            <li>mongo</li>
                        </ul><note>It is recommended that you use snapshots if the mode is mysql,
                            sqlserver, or mongo.</note></li>
          <li>Define whether to use a snapshot in the file system for the backup. <ul>
              <li>In Unix systems LVM is used (when available). </li>
              <li>In Windows systems virtual shadow copies are used.</li>
          </ul></li><li>Define a storage media in a job from the following list:
          <ul>
            <li>swift (requires OpenStack credentials)(default)</li>
            <li>local (no credentials required)</li>
            <li>SSH (no credentials required) (not implemented on Windows)</li>
          </ul></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Basic Configuration</title>
      <p>There are several mandatory arguments to execute a backup: <ul>
          <li>Action (backup by default)</li>
          <li>Mode (fs by default)</li>
          <li>Path-to-backup</li>
          <li>Backup-name</li>
          <li>Container (swift container or local path)</li>
          <li>Storage (swift by default)</li>
        </ul></p> For HP Helion OpenStack 2.0, you can create a backup using only mandatory values
      as in the following example:
      <codeblock>  - freezerc --action backup --mode fs --storage swift --path-to-backup /home/user/tmp --container tmp_backups --backup-name backup1</codeblock>
      The translation to a configuration file for this backup execution would be as follows:
      <codeblock>

  {
    "job_actions": [
        {
            "freezer_action": {
                "action": "backup",
                "mode": "fs",
                "backup_name": "backup1",
                "path_to_backup": "/home/user/tmp",
                "container": "tmp_backups"
            },
            "max_retries": 3,
            "max_retries_interval": 60
        }
    ],
    "job_schedule": {
        "schedule_interval": "24 hours"
    },
    "description": "backup for tmp dir"
  }
</codeblock>
      In this configuration file (JSON), the freezer command is wrapped in the "freezer_action" key.
        <note>All "-" are translated to "_" and the first "--" are omitted.</note> As of HP Helion
      OpenStack 2.0, we can define the schedule rules that this job will follow (only available
      through the configuration file) and a brief description of the job. </section>
  </body>
</topic>
