<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pgq_mnw_dt">
    <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Freezer Agent</title>
    <body>
        <!--Needs Edit-->
        <section><title>Backing up your Data</title></section>
        <section><title>Introduction </title><p>As of HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0,
                you must follow these steps to perform backups: <ol>
                    <li>Define what you want to backup.</li>
                    <li>Define a mode for that backup. The following modes are available: <ul>
                            <li>fs (filesystem) (default)</li>
                            <li>mysql</li>
                            <li>sqlserver</li>
                            <li>mongo</li>
                        </ul><note>It is recommended that you use snapshots if the mode is mysql,
                            sqlserver, or mongo.</note></li>
                    <li>Define whether to use a snapshot in the file system for the backup. <ul>
                            <li>In Unix systems LVM is used (when available). </li>
                            <li>In Windows systems virtual shadow copies are used.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>Define a storage media in a job from the following list: <ul>
                            <li>swift (requires OpenStack credentials)(default)</li>
                            <li>local (no credentials required)</li>
                            <li>SSH (no credentials required) (not implemented on Windows)</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ol></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Basic Configuration</title>
            <p>There are several mandatory arguments to execute a backup: <ul>
                    <li>Action (backup by default)</li>
                    <li>Mode (fs by default)</li>
                    <li>Path-to-backup</li>
                    <li>Backup-name</li>
                    <li>Container (swift container or local path)</li>
                    <li>Storage (swift by default)</li>
                </ul></p> For HP Helion OpenStack 2.0, you can create a backup using only mandatory
            values as in the following example:
            <codeblock>- freezerc --action backup --mode fs --storage swift --path-to-backup /home/user/tmp --container tmp_backups --backup-name backup1</codeblock>
            The translation to a configuration file for this backup execution would be as follows:
            <codeblock>
  {
    "job_actions": [
        {
            "freezer_action": {
                "action": "backup",
                "mode": "fs",
                "backup_name": "backup1",
                "path_to_backup": "/home/user/tmp",
                "container": "tmp_backups"
            },
            "max_retries": 3,
            "max_retries_interval": 60
        }
    ],
    "job_schedule": {
        "schedule_interval": "24 hours"
    },
    "description": "backup for tmp dir"
  }
</codeblock>
            In this configuration file (JSON), the freezer command is wrapped in the
            "freezer_action" key. <note>All "-" are translated to "_" and the first "--" are
                omitted.</note> As of HP Helion OpenStack 2.0, we can define the schedule rules that
            this job will follow (only available through the configuration file) and a brief
            description of the job. </section>
        <section><title>Restoring your Data</title><p> As of HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg"
                    >OpenStack</tm> 2.0, you must do the following in order to restore data after a
                backup: <ol>
                    <li>Select a backup to restore.</li>
                    <li>Define a mode for the restore: The following modes are available:<ul>
                            <li>fs (filesystem) (default)</li>
                            <li>mysql</li>
                            <li>sqlserver</li>
                            <li>mongo</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>If the restore involves an application (such as mysql) remember to shut down
                        the application or service and start it again after the restore.</li>
                </ol></p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Basic Configuration</title>
            <p>To restore from a backup, note that in some cases you must stop the service (for
                instance MySQL) before the restore.</p>
            <p>There are several mandatory options to execute a restore: <ul>
                    <li>action (backup by default)</li>
                    <li>mode (fs by default)</li>
                    <li>restore-abs-path</li>
                    <li>backup-name</li>
                    <li>container (swift container or local path)</li>
                    <li>storage (swift by default)</li>
                    <li>restore-from-host</li>
                    <li>restore-from-date (optional)</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>You can create a restore using mandatory values, as in the following example:
                <codeblock>  - freezerc --action restore --mode fs --storage swift --restore-abs-path /home/user/tmp --container tmp_backups --backup-name backup1 --restore-from-host ubuntu</codeblock></p>
            <p>The translation to a configuration file for this restore execution would be as
                follows:
                <codeblock>
  {
    "job_actions": [
        {
            "freezer_action": {
                "action": "restore",
                "mode": "fs",
                "backup_name": "backup1",
                "restore_abs_path": "/home/user/tmp",
                "container": "tmp_backups",
                "restore_from_host": "ubuntu"
            },
            "max_retries": 3,
            "max_retries_interval": 60
        }
    ],
    "description": "backup for tmp dir"
  }
</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>HP Helion OpenStack Restore Process</title></section>
        <section><title>Deployer Restore</title></section>
        <ol>
            <li>Connect to deployer.</li>
            <li>Become root:<codeblock>sudo su</codeblock></li>
            <li>Source backup environment
                file:<codeblock>source /etc/freezer/backup.osrc</codeblock></li>
            <li>List
                jobs:<codeblock>freezer-scheduler -c &lt;deployer hostname (generaly hLinux)> job-list</codeblock></li>
            <li>Get the id corresponding to the job "HLM Default: Deployer restore";</li>
            <li>Launch the restore:
                <codeblock>freezer-scheduler -c &lt;deployer hostname (generaly hLinux)&gt; job-start -j &lt;job-id&gt;</codeblock></li>
            <li>Wait for some time, you can follow the
                <codeblock>/var/log/freezer-agent/freezer-agent.log</codeblock></li>
        </ol>
        <section><title>Nova Compute Restore</title></section>
        <ol>
            <li>Stop Nova.</li>
            <li>On each compute node you want to restore, run the following steps: <ol>
                    <li>Become root <codeblock>sudo su</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Source backup environment
                        file:<codeblock>source /etc/freezer/backup.osrc</codeblock></li>
                    <li>List
                        jobs:<codeblock>freezer-scheduler -c &lt;hostname&gt; job-list</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Get the id corresponding to the job "HLM Default: Nova restore".</li>
                    <li>Launch the
                        restore:<codeblock>freezer-scheduler -c &lt;hostname&gt; job-start -j &lt;job-id&gt;</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Wait for some time, you can follow the
                        <codeblock>/var/log/freezer-agent/freezer-agent.log</codeblock></li>
                    <li>Once OK, restart Nova.</li>
                </ol></li>
        </ol>
        <p/>
    </body>
</topic>
