<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1827">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> 1.1: Managing Images</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.managing.images.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/images/--></p>
<p>A virtual machine image is a single file that contains a virtual disk with a bootable operating system installed on it. You can use images to create virtual machine instances within the cloud.</p>
<p>To create an image, you upload an ISO image file. After you upload an image, it is considered golden and you cannot change it.</p>
<p>You can use the dashboards to create and configure private virtual machine images, which can be used to create instances.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> You can also <xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.snapshot.public.dita" >create an image based on an instance</xref>, which is called a <i>snapshot</i>.</p>
<p>How you interact with these images depends upon your user type, either an administrative user (admin) or a non-administrative user (user).</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> The admin can perform all of the user tasks in addition to the admin tasks.</p>
<section id="managing-images-as-a-user"> <title>Managing images as a user</title>
<p>As a user, you can work with any <i>private</i> images associated with the active project.</p>
<p>Access the image commands using the Compute panel on the Project dashboard.</p>
<p>Click <b>Images</b> to perform the following tasks:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.images.create.dita" >Create an image</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.images.modify.dita" >Modify an image</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.images.delete.dita" >Delete an image</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.images.details.dita" >View image details</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforUsers/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.snapshot.protect.dita" >Protect an image or snapshot from being edited</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="managing-images-as-an-admin"> <title>Managing images as an admin</title>
<p>As an admin user, you can work on all of the images in your domain, regardless of which project the image is associated with.</p>
<p>Access the admin image commands using the System Panel  on the Admin dashboard.</p>
<p>As an admin, you can determine if the snapshot is available only in the current project or to all projects in the domain.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../../UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Images/1.1commercial.dashboard.snapshot.public.dita" >Make an image or snapshot public</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1827"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
