<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_g2r_w5b_3t">
  <title>Edit an Existing Project</title>
  <body>
    <p>Some elements of an existing project can be changed.</p>
    <section><title>Edit Project Specifications</title>
    <ol id="project_edit">
      
      <li>Click the <b>Projects</b> tab.</li>
      <li>Click the target project and then click <b>Edit</b>. <note>The target Repository cannot be
          changed. If the Repository is wrong, delete this project and create a new one.</note></li>
      <li>Click <b>Save</b>.</li>
          </ol>
  </section>
    <section id="addmore">
      <title>Add More Deployment Targets</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Select the target build and click <b>Edit</b>.</li>
        <li>Scroll down and click <b>Add Targets</b>.</li>
        <li>Specify the environments this build should be deployed to.</li>
        <li>Click <b>Save</b>.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
   <section><title>Create Post-deployment Actions</title>
    <p conref="cicd_create_postdeploy.dita#topic_mxf_jxb_3t/createpd"></p></section>
    
    <section><title>Create Notifications</title>
      <ol><li>Click the <b>Projects</b> tab.</li>
        <li>Find the desired Project in the list and then click <b>View Details</b>.</li>
        <li>Scroll down to <b>Notification Targets </b>and then click <b>New Target</b>.</li>
        <li conref="cicd_create_project.dita#createProject/defineNotifications"/>
      </ol></section>
    
    <section><title>Delete a Project</title>
    <ol id="project_delete">
      
      <li>Click the <b>Projects</b> tab.</li>
      <li>Click the trash-can icon to the right of the target project in the list.</li>
      <li>Click <b>Delete</b> to confirm.</li>
    </ol></section>
    <section><title>Iniviting Users to a Project</title>
      Only individuals assigned to a project as a User can work on that project. 
    <ol id="invite_user">
      
      <li>Click the <b>Projects</b> tab.</li>
      <li>Note the URL listed after Invite.</li>
      <li>Copy and send this URL to the person you want to add as a User.</li>
    </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
