<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="task_sw4_1zq_dt">
    <title>HP Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Create an Automated Build-Test-Deploy Cycle</title>
    <body>
    <p>The true advantage of CICD is creating a build-test-deploy cycle which will occur
            automatically whenever a change is committed.</p>
        <p>When a pull request is received, developers can <xref
                href="cicd_preview_tempdeploy.dita#topic_mpz_ypd_3t">preview a temporary
                deployment</xref> before approving the proposed changes. Approval will then trigger
            the full build-test-deploy cycle.</p>
    
    <p>You will need: <ul>
                <li>An application to deploy.</li>
                <li>An instance of the CICD tool <xref
                        href="cicd_installation.dita#topic_lcx_vtc_dt">installed</xref>.</li>
                <li>The access credentials for a valid target environment.</li>
                                            </ul></p>
     <section><title>Overview</title>
     <p>Using the CICD tool, specify what will happen each time the application is built: which
                environment to deploy the application to, which tests to run, who should be
                notified, and how that notification should be delivered. All this information is
                contained in a Project.</p>
            <p>After the cycle is defined, each build will automatically deploy the app to the
                target environment, run the specified tests, and send relevant notifications. All
                the developers have to do is write, commit, and build.</p>                                       
                                            
                                            </section>
        <section><title>Steps</title>
        <ol>
            <li><xref href="cicd_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/environment">Create a New Environment</xref>. This defines the deployment target.</li>
            <li><xref href="cicd_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/project">Create a Project</xref>.
                    This defines the target code repository and specifies build notifications.</li>
            <li><xref href="cicd_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/post">Create Post-Deployment Actions</xref>. This defines what actions to take, usually
                    testing, after the build is completed. (optional)</li>
            <li><xref href="cicd_walkthrough.dita#task_sw4_1zq_dt/commit">Commit and Build</xref>. Start the whole cycle from your source repo.</li>
        </ol>
        </section>
<section id="environment"><title>Specify an Environment</title>
    <p conref="cicd_environment_create.dita#mf4_fh4_ht/create_environment"/>
</section>
        
        <section id="project"><title>Create a Project</title>
        <p conref="cicd_create_project.dita#createProject/project_create"/></section> 
    
        <section id="post"><title>Add Post-Deployment Tasks</title><p conref="cicd_create_postdeploy.dita#createPostDeploy/createpd"/></section>
        <section id="commit">
            <title>Commit and Build</title>
           <note>You can also <xref href="cicd_create_build.dita">perform a manual build</xref> at any time from the CICD tool. </note> <p/>
        </section>      
  
    </body>

 </topic>
