<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="mf4_fh4_ht">
    <title>Create a New Environment</title>
    <body>
        <p>The Environment is a target where the application is deployed. Click the <b>Environments</b> tab to see the list of available environments.</p>
    <ol id="create_environment">
                <li>Select your technology.<ul>
                    <li>Use CloudFoundry: Deploys the application to a Cloud Foundry endpoint.</li>
                    <li>Use Docker: Builds the application and pushes the image to a public or
                        private DockerHub repository.</li>
                    <li>Use Lattice: Deploys the application to a simplified container cluster.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li>Provide the required credentials.<ul>
                    <li>For Cloud Foundry, provide the Helion Cloud Foundry URL and the username and
                        password for logging in and then click <b>Connect</b>.</li>
                    <li>For Docker Hub: doesn't seem functional yet.</li>
                    <li>For Lattice: doesn't seem functional yet.</li>
                </ul></li>
        
        <li>Define the environment. <ol>
                    <li>Select the target Organization. If the target Organization does not appear
                        in the list, you may have to <xref
                            href="../helion/user/reference/client-ref-organizations.dita#topic6634/command-create-org"
                            >create it</xref>.</li>
                    <li>Select the target Space. If the target Space does not appear in the list,
                        you may have to <xref
                            href="../helion/user/reference/client-ref-spaces.dita#topic9898/command-create-space"
                            >create it</xref>.</li>
                    <li>Provide a unique, descriptive name for this environment.</li>
                    <li>Click <b>Save</b>.</li>
                                    </ol>
            </li><li>Your new environment will now appear in the list.</li>
    </ol>
    </body>
</topic>
