<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2139c2uhmh">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Working with Host Aggregates</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-controller-hostaggregate.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/hostaggregate/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>Host aggregates are collections of hosts that share common attributes for the purposes of VM scheduling.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>To view host aggregates, open the Host Aggregates page from the Admin menu.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160c2udl" >Launch the HPE Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Host Aggregates</b> link.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>When the Nova Scheduler selects a compute node to instantiate a VM, it can use host aggregates to narrow the selection.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<ul>
<li>If the VM requires local storage, the Nova scheduler selects a host from the <codeph>local_storage_hosts</codeph> host aggregate. </li>
<li>Or, if the VM requires remote storage, the scheduler selects from
the <codeph>remote_storage_hosts</codeph> host aggregate. This ensures that the instance is instantiated on a host that meets the requirements of the VM.</li>
</ul>
<p>The Nova scheduler does not always use host aggregates. For example, if a VM does not specify either local or remote storage, the Nova scheduler can instantiate it on any resource.</p>
<p>Some host aggregates are managed automatically by HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> Do not make manual changes to host aggregates that are managed automatically.</p>
<p>The <codeph>local_storage_hosts</codeph> and <codeph>remote_storage_hosts</codeph> memberships are updated automatically whenever a local volume group is added or removed on a compute host. For more information, see Configuring a Compute Host to Provide Local Storage.</p>
<p>You can use host aggregates to meet special requirements. For example, you can create a pool of compute hosts to offer dedicated resources such as pinned NUMA nodes or specific huge page sizes, while grouping the remaining compute hosts to offer shared resources.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2139c2uhmh"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
