<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic6187">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Glossary</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<section id="term-AMQP"> <title>AMQP</title>
<p>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Message_Queuing_Protocol" scope="external" format="html" >Advanced Message Queuing Protocol</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-ANT"> <title>Apache ANT</title>
<p>A software tool for automating software build processes. See <xref href="http://ant.apache.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Ant</xref> for more info.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-Maven"> <title>Apache Maven</title>
<p>A build automation tool typically used for Java projects. See
    <xref href="http://maven.apache.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Maven</xref> for more info.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-app"> <title>app</title>
<p>Any application software intended for instantiation in Application Lifecycle Service. At minimum it consists of the application, expressed in a dynamic language, plus a configuration file named <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-Avahi"> <title>Avahi</title>
<p>An implementation of <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-multicast-dns">multicast DNS</xref> and related protocols.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-cluster"> <title>cluster</title>
<p>A set of interconnected physical processors or virtual machines, managed at least conceptually as a single entity but otherwise operating autonomously. Historically the term carried a variety of proprietary meanings, but came into general use with the rapid development of supercomputing based upon <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beowulf_cluster" scope="external" format="html" >Beowulf    Clusters</xref>. An Application Lifecycle Service cluster is one in which <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-role">role</xref> are assigned or replicated to multiple cluster <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-node">nodes</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-component"> <title>component</title>
<p>Within Application Lifecycle Service, the term <b>component</b> is used when naming a discrete part of the Application Lifecycle Service server. For example, a    <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-role">role</xref> is made up of one or more components.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-container"> <title>container</title>
<p>A lightweight form of virtualization which provides resource
    isolation and secure separation for multiple instances of the same
    base system. According to circumstances it may be used in addition
    to or instead of hypervisor virtualization.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-CPAN"> <title>CPAN</title>
<p>Acronym for <xref href="http://www.cpan.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Comprehensive Perl Archive Network</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-doozerd"> <title>doozerd</title>
<p>A consistent distributed data store. Used for cluster management in Application Lifecycle Service. (see <xref href="https://github.com/ha/doozerd#readme" type="section" scope="external" format="html" >Doozer project on GitHub</xref>)</p>
</section>
<section id="term-DHCP"> <title>DHCP</title>
<p>
<xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Host_Configuration_Protocol" scope="external" format="html" >Dynamic Host Configuration
    Protocol</xref>.
    The DHCP service is used to allocate IP addresses to clients on
    demand and to supply other basic network information they need, such
    as the addresses of a default router and DNS server.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-DNS"> <title>DNS</title>
<p>
<xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System" scope="external" format="html" >Domain Name
    System</xref>. Resolves
    domain names to IP addresses.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-dnsmasq"> <title>dnsmasq</title>
<p>A <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dnsmasq" scope="external" format="html" >lightweight server</xref> for
    locally integrating DNS with DHCP/BOOTP.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-dynamicDNS"> <title>dynamic DNS</title>
<p>A means of rapidly updating the Domain Name System, possibly making use of <xref href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2136" scope="external" format="html" >RFC 2136</xref> Dynamic Updates.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-filesystem"> <title>filesystem</title>
<p>In Application Lifecycle Service, <b>filesystem</b> refers to persistent storage accessed by an application <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-service">service</xref> specified in <i>manifest.yml</i> through a server which has been assigned the filesystem <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-role">role</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-JSON"> <title>JSON</title>
<p>A notation for structured text data, acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON" scope="external" format="html" >JavaScript Object Notation</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-MBUS"> <title>MBUS</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service's implementation of an <xref href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3259" scope="external" format="html" >RFC 3259</xref> message queue used  for interprocess communication. See also: <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-NATS">NATS</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-memcached"> <title>memcached</title>
<p>Free &amp; open source, high-performance, distributed memory object
    caching system, generic in nature, but intended for use in speeding
    up dynamic web applications by alleviating database load. (see
    <xref href="http://memcached.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Memcached project page</xref>)</p>
</section>
<section id="term-micro-cloud"> <title>micro cloud</title>
<p>A preconfigured Application Lifecycle Service virtual machine image consisting of a single generic <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-node">node</xref> enabled for all the <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-role">roles</xref> necessary for basic operation, but with no pre-installed <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-app">apps</xref> or <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-service">services</xref>s.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-mongodb"> <title>mongodb</title>
<p>A popular <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NoSQL" scope="external" format="html" >noSQL</xref> database management system.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-multicast-dns"> <title>multicast DNS</title>
<p>A distributed means of configuring DNS by <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS" scope="external" format="html" >multicast discovery</xref>. It is supported on Application Lifecycle Service <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-micro-cloud">micro cloud</xref> servers using <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-Avahi">Avahi</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-mysql"> <title>mysql</title>
<p>A relational database management system.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-NAT"> <title>NAT</title>
<p>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation" scope="external" format="html" >Network Address Translation</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-NATS"> <title>NATS</title>
<p>In Application Lifecycle Service, a publish-subscribe message system implemented as a  process called <codeph>nats-server</codeph> which listens on a network interface, normally on port 4222/tcp. Messages published across the network to a particular <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-MBUS">MBUS</xref> queue managed by the nats-server are communicated to clients which are subscribed to that queue.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-Nginx"> <title>Nginx</title>
<p>
<xref href="http://wiki.nginx.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Nginx</xref> is a high-performance, event-driven web server.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-node"> <title>Node</title>
<p>An Application Lifecycle Service <b>node</b> is a single processing host in a <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-cluster">cluster</xref>. It is typically a virtual machine running under a hypervisor.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-OVF"> <title>OVF</title>
<p>Acronym for <xref href="http://dmtf.org/standards/ovf" scope="external" format="html" >Open Virtualization Format</xref>, a specification for virtual machine images developed by the DMTF industry consortium.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-PaaS"> <title>PaaS</title>
<p>Acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Platform_as_a_service" scope="external" format="html" >Platform as a Service</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-pip"> <title>pip</title>
<p>A tool for installing and managing Python packages, such as those
    found in the Python Package Index. It's a replacement for
    easy_install. See
    <xref href="http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/" scope="external" format="html" >pip-installer</xref> for more
    information.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-pypm"> <title>PyPM</title>
<p>PyPM is the <i>binary</i> package manager for ActivePython. It is usually
    the fastest and most reliable way of installing PyPI packages for
    your Application Lifecycle Service applications. The PyPM repository hosts almost all of
    the Python packages registered in PyPI and includes their latest
    versions. See <xref href="http://code.activestate.com/pypm" scope="external" format="html" >PyPM</xref> for more
    information.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-Polipo"> <title>Polipo</title>
<p>A lightweight caching web proxy intended for small applications.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-postgresql"> <title>postgresql</title>
<p>A relational database management system.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-privatePaaS"> <title>private PaaS</title>
<p>A private <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-PaaS">PaaS</xref> is one which is hosted on your private cloud, behind your firewall.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-RabbitMQ"> <title>RabbitMQ</title>
<p>A <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_broker" scope="external" format="html" >message broker</xref> subsystem which implements <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-AMQP">AMQP</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-Redis"> <title>Redis</title>
<p>An implementation of memory resident key-value store.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-resolvconf"> <title>resolvconf</title>
<p>A system configuration tool typically used by hook scripts at boot time. See the <xref href="http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man8/resolvconf.8.html" scope="external" format="html" >resolvconf man page</xref> for details.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-role"> <title>role</title>
<p>Each <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-node">node</xref> in an Application Lifecycle Service <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-cluster">cluster</xref> may be assigned certain selectable capabilities within the Application Lifecycle Service architecture. These capabilities are called <b>roles</b>, and are usually denoted in lowercase. Examples of essential roles are <b>router</b>, <b>primary</b>, <b>controller</b>, and <b>dea</b>. In addition, there are <b>role groups</b> (for convenience) such as <b>data-services</b> that represent all data-services. (postgresql mysql rabbit mongodb redis filesystem memcached)</p>
</section>
<section id="term-service"> <title>service</title>
<p>In Application Lifecycle Service, a <b>service</b> is a type of <xref type="section" href="#topic6187/term-role">role</xref> that may be provisioned on a server and accessed by an application as specified in <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-supervisord"> <title>supervisord</title>
<p>A process control system used by Application Lifecycle Service internally. (see
    <xref href="http://supervisord.org/" scope="external" format="html" >Supervisor project page</xref>)</p>
</section>
<section id="term-tty-console"> <title>tty console</title>
<p>The hypervisor window which provides serial console access to one of
    its virtual machines.</p>
</section>
<section id="term-YAML"> <title>YAML </title>
<p>A notation for structured text data, acronym for <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML" scope="external" format="html" >YAML Ain't Markup Language</xref>, used in <i>manifest.yml</i> configuration files.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
