<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_u3c_rtd_5s">
  <title>Availability and Placement Zones</title>
  <body>
<section><p>
    ALS has two mechanisms for allocating application instances on
    particular Droplet Execution Agent (DEA) nodes or groups of nodes:
    <dl><dlentry>
      <dt>Availability Zones</dt>
      <dd>for distributing application instances across
        groups of servers in different physical locations, network segments,
        or racks.</dd>
    </dlentry><dlentry>
      <dt>Placement Zones</dt>
      <dd>for restricting application instances to
        particular sets of servers.</dd>
    </dlentry></dl>
    
    Both zone types are set in the  <codeph>placement_properties</codeph> configuration on each
    DEA node, which can be set with  <codeph>kato node</codeph> sub-commands.
    
    See also <xref href="../../user/deploy/deploy_index.dita">Availability and Placement Zones</xref>in the User Guide.
      
</p>  </section>
  <section id="dea-zones-availability"><title>Availability Zones</title><p>Setting availability
        zones allows configuration to respect the physical/logical distribution of servers. In this
        sense, they are similar to availability zones or regions in EC2. </p>If there are multiple
      availability zones, application instances are evenly distributed among zones as much as
      possible. For example, if there are three instances of an application and three availability
      zones, one instance will be deployed in each zone.  <p>This significantly improves high
        availability and disaster recovery. If an entire availability zone goes offline, the app
        will remain running with little or no down time. By default, all DEAs are part of the
          <i>default</i> availability zone. To set a zone, use the <xref type="section"
          href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-node-availabilityzone"
            ><codeph>kato node availabilityzone</codeph></xref> command. </p>For example, to see the
      current availability zone of a DEA:
      <codeblock>kato node availabilityzone
Availability zone on node 10.0.0.41 is 'default'.</codeblock>To
      set the availability zone:
      <codeblock>kato node availabilityzone region-b
Availability zone on node 10.0.0.41 is 'region-b'.</codeblock></section>     
 <section id="dea-zones-placement"><title>Placement Zones</title>
        <p>Placement Zones allow application instances to be limited to a certain set of DEA nodes.
        Admins can tag DEAs with a certain set of security policies or hardware characteristics with
        placement zones, allowing users deploying applications to choose which group of servers to
        run instances of a particular application on.</p>
        
   <p>For example, users can choose to deploy instances of an application only to a
          <i>production</i> placement zone. Only those DEA nodes in the <i>production</i> placement
        zone will receive instances of that application.</p>
        
   <p>DEAs have a <codeph>placement_properties/zones</codeph> key in their node-specific config
        where placement zones are specified. These are set with the <codeph><xref type="section"
            href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-node-placementzones-add"
            >node placementzones</xref></codeph> command. The relevant sub-commands are:
        <codeblock>kato node placementzones list
kato node placementzones add [zone]
kato node placementzones remove [zone]</codeblock></p>
          <p>When deploying an application instance to a placement zone, the Cloud Controller
        chooses which DEA nodes receive the instance, prioritizing the DEA that is running the
        fewest instances of the app already. This maintains an even distribution of instances of any
        one app across the DEAs in the placement zone.</p>
          
          <p>DEAs tagged with multiple zones will accept applications for any of those zones.</p>
          
   <p>By default, apps are deployed into the <i>default</i> zone. DEAs that don't register
          <b>any</b> zone will also accept apps for the <i>default</i> zone. This maintains
        backwards compatibility.</p>
          
   <p>Users can set the placement zone for an app using the <xref type="section"
          href="../../user/deploy/manifestyml.dita#topic20922/placement-zone"
          >manifest_yml-placement-zone</xref> key or using the <xref type="section"
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-placement.dita#topic4565/command-set-placement-zone"
          >helion set-placement-zone </xref> command. </p>        
   <p>Zones are strictly enforced. If an application requests the <i>production</i> zone, and the
        DEA doesn't advertise it, then the app will never be deployed to that DEA. If an app
        attempts to use a zone which is not provided by any DEA in the cluster, the app will not
        deploy, displaying an error during <codeph>helion push</codeph>.</p>
      </section>                      
  </body>
</topic>
