<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic9859">
<title>Customize Network Settings (Required)</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/install.customize-network-settings.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/install/customize-network-settings/--></p>
<p>This topic describes the steps to customize the network settings. These steps are required.</p>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> If you plan to customize the network settings, you must do it before performing the steps in <xref href="../cloudos/install.complete-admin-node-installation.dita" >Complete the Admin Node Installation</xref>. 
After that, the network settings in the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard are read only. Once the install process is triggered, no changes can be made. If you want to make changes, you need to start over by re-installing the Admin Node.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9859/introduction">Introduction</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9859/customize-the-admin-network">Customize the Admin Network</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9859/customize-the-os_sdn-network">Customize the OS-SDN Network</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9859/customize-the-public-network">Customize the Public Network</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9859/next-step">Next Step</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="introduction"> <title>Introduction</title>
<p>Based on the network infrastructure suggested in the "Plan the Infrastructure for a Cloud" section of 
<xref href="../cloudos/install.beforeyouinstall.dita" >Before You Install</xref>, you must customize the network settings. Here are some of the
criteria to be considered while making changes to the default settings:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The default settings, "Dual", assume you have a separate physical network for each interface. 
That is, admin, os_sdn, and public network across the Admin Node and all the managed nodes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For a production type of deployment and to reduce the complexities of configuring the switches
(as suggested above), it is strongly recommended that you provide separate wired networks for
public, os_sdn, and admin. This requires you to specify your own range of IP addresses and
other settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Some networks and address ranges for those networks are provided by default. You can modify
or delete the IP address ranges as well as add new ones. You must use valid ranges that fall
within the subnet as defined by the subnet address and mask specified in the network details.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<lq>
  <p>If you edit the network IP address ranges and enter invalid ranges, you will get a validation error
  when you click Update Address Ranges in the Edit Address Ranges dialog. The validation
  error shows the invalid address (start or end) and the corresponding network type. You must fix
  all errors in the Edit Address Ranges dialog and click Update Address Ranges to validate the
  addresses are correct. Clicking Cancel will not trigger the validation step.</p>
  
  <p>
<b>Caution:</b> Validation of the address ranges only occurs when you open the Edit Address
  Ranges dialog for each network and click Update Address Ranges. Otherwise,you will
  not know if you have any errors. However, the Complete Install step will run a validation
  check and cannot be completed until the errors (if any) are fixed. If there is an address range error,
  the validation check will show the network type and possibly the address value. If not, open
  the Edit Address Ranges dialog for the specified network and click Update Address
  Ranges to identify the incorrect address.</p>
</lq>
<!-- fixed:
**Tip:** Before editing any network's settings, take a screenshot of the default values. When you start
editing, the defaults disappear -??- there is no reset.
-->
</section>
<section id="customize-the-admin-network"> <title>Customize the Admin Network</title>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> HP recommends that you keep the default values because this network type is considered
to be an isolated, private network. If you wish to customize the Admin network, the Operational Dashboard would not be accessible 
on the current IP address, post Complete Install. You may have to set the browser client's network configuration to be on the same network as the 
customized Admin network to continue accessing it. The Complete Install process in the Operational Dashboard will suggest the required changes.</p>
</section>
<section id="edit-the-admin-network"> <title>Edit the Admin Network</title>
<p>To edit the admin network:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the Operational Dashboard, select the Environment tab &gt; Networks.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Edit Network</b> for the Network Type admin.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the Network tab and review the settings. Modify these settings based on your required private network settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the VLAN tab and review the settings. Modify these settings based on your required private network settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the Router tab and review the settings. Modify these settings, based on your required private network settings. 
<b>Note:</b> It is recommended to provide a non-routable private network for the admin network. <!-- Therefore, do not specify a Router IP address in the Router tab. --></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Network</b> to save your changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="edit-the-admin-address-ranges"> <title>Edit the Admin Address Ranges</title>
<p>To edit the admin address ranges:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the admin Edit Network drop-down list, select <b>Edit Address Ranges</b> to open the Edit Address Ranges dialog.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Network Type and Subnet values are pre-populated by default with the correct settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Review the default configurations for each Node Type, IPV4 Start Addr, IPV4 End Addr.
Following are the default Node Types and address ranges:</p>

<p>a. <b>admin</b>: IP range for the Admin Node — 192.168.124.10 to 192.168.124.11</p>

<p>b. <b>dhcp</b>: Temporary IP address assignment for the PXE booted nodes — 192.168.124.21 to 192.168.124.80</p>

<p>c. <b>host</b>: Permanent admin network IP address assignment for the participating nodes — 192.168.124.81 to 192.168.124.160</p>

<p>d. <b>switch</b>: This is for test purposes only.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Address Ranges</b> to save your changes and to validate that the IP address is correct.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<lq>
  <p>
<b>Note:</b> If you enter invalid address ranges, you will get a validation error, which identifies the incorrect address (start or end) for the corresponding network type. You must fix all
  errors in the Edit Address Ranges dialog and click Update Address Ranges to validate the addresses are correct.</p>
</lq>
</section>
<section id="customize-the-os-sdn-network"> <title>Customize the OS_SDN Network</title>
<p>The os_sdn network is the private network between the provisioned VMs, as well as from the VMs
to the Networking Node. By default this network is not configured to use VLAN. Update the network to
set VLAN as false and provide the IP address range.</p>
</section>
<section id="edit-the-os-sdn-network"> <title>Edit the os_sdn Network</title>
<p>To edit the os_sdn network:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the Operational Dashboard, select the Environment tab &gt; Networks.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click Edit Network for the os_sdn network type.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the Network tab and review the settings. Do not make any changes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the VLAN tab. If you plan to use the SINGLE Network mode, set the VLAN value to
True. If you plan to use the DUAL Network mode, set the VLAN value to False.
Note: The Operational Dashboard displays subsequent options based on the following rules:</p>

<p>a. If os_sdn and public are both set to VLAN=True, the only displayed choice in the Complete Install dialog for Network mode will be SINGLE.</p>

<p>b. If os_sdn or public are set to VLAN=False, the only displayed choice in the Complete Install dialog for Network mode will be DUAL.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the Router tab and review the settings. Do not make any changes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click Update Network to save your changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="edit-the-os-sdn-address-ranges"> <title>Edit the os_sdn Address Ranges</title>
<p>To edit the os_sdn address ranges:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the os_sdn Edit Network drop-down list, select Edit Address Ranges to open the Address Ranges dialog.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Network Type and Subnet values are pre-populated by default with the correct settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Review the default configurations for each Node Type, IPV4 Start Addr, IPV4 End Addr. Here are the default Node Types and address ranges:</p>

<p>a. <b>Node Type</b> = host</p>

<p>b. <b>IPV4 Start Addr</b> = 192.168.130.81</p>

<p>c. <b>IPV4 End Addr</b> = 192.168.130.160</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Address Ranges</b> to save your changes to validate that the IP address is correct.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> If you enter invalid address ranges, you will get a validation error, which identifies the incorrect address (start or end) for the corresponding network type. You must fix all
errors in the Edit Address Ranges dialog and click Update Address Ranges to validate the addresses are correct.</p>
</section>
<section id="customize-the-public-network"> <title>Customize the Public Network</title>
<p>To provide external access, make sure you specify the &lt;External/Public IP Address Range&gt;. This range is used for PXE booted managed nodes. 
Upon successful deployment of a cloud, only the managed nodes get the external IP address. Therefore, a small range of this IP pool is sufficient. 
Get the range from your IT administrator.</p>
<!--
* **Range 2:** &lt;External/Public IP Address Range>. This range is used for a Floating IP assignment
of provisioned instances within OpenStack(R) Get the range from your IT administrator. This range
will be used when you create an External (Floating IP) IP Network on the Administration
Dashboard.  
-->
</section>
<section id="edit-the-public-network"> <title>Edit the Public Network</title>
<p>To edit the public network:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the Operational Dashboard, select the Environment tab &gt; Networks.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Edit Network</b> for the public Network Type.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Network tab, specify the Subnet and Netmask explicitly for your public IP address
range and set Bridge Enabled to False.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the VLAN tab. If you plan to use the SINGLE Network mode, set the VLAN value to
True. If you plan to use the DUAL Network mode, set the VLAN value to False.
Note: The Operational Dashboard displays subsequent options based on the following rules:</p>

<p>a. If os_sdn and public are both set to VLAN=True, the only displayed choice in the Complete Install dialog for Network mode will be SINGLE.</p>

<p>b. If os_sdn or public are set to VLAN=False, the only displayed choice in the Complete Install dialog for Network mode will be DUAL.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Router tab, specify the Router value as a Gateway IP address of your Public IP address range.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Network</b> to save your changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="edit-the-public-address-ranges"> <title>Edit the Public Address Ranges</title>
<p>To edit the public address ranges:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the public Edit Network drop-down list, select Edit Address Ranges to open the Edit Address Ranges dialog.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Network Type and Subnet values are pre-populated by default, with the correct settings.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Add Address Range</b> to modify the set of address range options.  Each time you click, you modify another set 
of address range options, based upon your public network. Get the range from your IT administrator:</p>

<p>a. Set IPV4 Start Addr to the start of the &lt;External/Public IP Address Range&gt; described above.</p>

<p>b. Set IPV4 End Addr to the end of the &lt;External/Public IP Address Range&gt;. 
Note: Provide the IP address range corresponding to the network address.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Update Address Ranges</b> to save your changes to validate that the IP address is correct.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> If you enter invalid address ranges, you will get a validation error, which identifies
the incorrect address (start or end) for the corresponding network type. You must fix all
errors in the Edit Address Ranges dialog and click Update Address Ranges to validate
the addresses are correct.</p>
</section>
<section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>Proceed to the next topic, <xref href="../cloudos/install.complete-admin-node-installation.dita" >Complete Admin Node Installation (Required)</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic9859/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
