<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1242">
<title>Install Hot Fixes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/install.hotfixes.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/install/hot-fixes/--></p>
<p>This topic describes the steps to import and apply hot fixes to your deployed cloud.  In this topic, hot fixes are referred to as content packages.</p>
<p>If you have already downloaded a content package to your client's local filesystem, and you need to add its functionality to your cloud:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>From the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard, select Cloud tab &gt; Hot Fixes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Import Package</b> and browse to the .csu file that contains the content package.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Choose File</b> to open a standard operating system "open file" dialog box, in which you can browse to and select the content package to be imported to the Cloud OS Administration node from the client's local file system. Note that such package files have a .csu extension.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>After choosing a valid content package (.csu) file using the Choose File dialog, click <b>Import</b> to import the file to the Admin node. If no file has been chosen, "No file chosen" will appear next to the Choose File button.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>Proceed to <xref href="../cloudos/install.updates-and-extensions.dita" >Updates and Extensions</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1242/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
