<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1571">
<title>Launch the Administration Dashboard</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/install.launch-admin-dashboard.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/install/launch-admin-dashboard/--></p>
<p>After a cloud environment has been created in the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard, you manage the cloud through the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard. The Administration Dashboard provides a simplified means
of creating and managing Cloud resources and topology design documents.  The Administration Dashboard also enables you to provision a composite topology described by the topology design documents.</p>
<p>To access the Administration Dashboard:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the Operational Dashboard, select the Cloud tab &gt; Manage Clouds.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select More &gt; Launch for the cloud created.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>When you return to the Administration Dashboard, at http://&lt;public-IP-of-your-cloud-controller&gt;, you will need to login.</p>
<p>In the current release, the dashboards use pre-defined login credentials. These are not published in the web-hosted documentation. To get the pre-defined login credentials, refer to the readme file included in the same ZIP that contained the HP Cloud OS ISO. 
If you have not already done so, see the ZIP on the <xref href="https://cloudos.hpwsportal.com" scope="external" format="html" >HP Helion Distribution Network</xref>.</p>
<section id="next-step"> <title>Next Step</title>
<p>For details about the Administration Dashboard, see the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help</xref>.</p>
<p>While you are still in the Operational Dashboard, check the license details for your instance. 
See the next topic, <xref href="../cloudos/install.license.dita" >Check the HP Cloud OS License</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1571/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
