<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10344">
<title>Administration Dashboard Tasks by Role</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-role.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/manage/administration-dashboard/tasks-by-role/--></p>
<p>The following topics describe HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard tasks for each dashboard role.</p>
<p>Generally, the privilege hierarchy gives each role all the rights of the roles beneath it. For example, 
a project administrator can perform all the tasks of a project user, plus some additional tasks. Occasionally, 
the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help provides guidance for best practices that supplement the privilege hierarchy.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/admin-user-tasks">Admin User Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/cloud-administrator-tasks">Cloud Administrator Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/cloud-architect-tasks">Cloud Architect Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/project-administrator-tasks">Project Administrator Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/project-user-tasks">Project User Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="admin-user-tasks"> <title>Admin User Tasks</title>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<p>After your organization works through Getting Started, the Admin user can focus on day-to-day Admin user tasks. As a best practice, the Admin user creates 
projects and project users, and works on the AdminProject. The Admin user can also change site settings that affect all users, view domains and services, 
and delete protected images.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-a-project" >How to Create a Project</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-a-user" >How to Create a User</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-add-or-remove-a-project-user" >How to Add or Remove a Project User</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-all-domains" >How to See All Domains</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-all-services" >How to See All Services</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-delete-an-image" >How to Delete an Image</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#administration-dashboard-settings" >Administration Dashboard Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/how-to-change-site-settings">How to Change Site Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#updates-and-extensions" >Updates and Extensions</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="how-to-change-site-settings"> <title>How to Change Site Settings</title>
<p>All Administration Dashboard users can access settings for User, Password, About, and Help.</p>
<p>Only the Admin user can access the Administration Dashboard Site Settings window. When the Admin user changes site settings, the changes affect all users of the site.</p>
<p>To access site settings:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in as the <b>Admin</b> user.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Settings</b> in the upper right of any window.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Site</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>On the Site Settings window, you can:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Change the log level.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Enable extra logging.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change proxy settings.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="to-change-the-log-level"> <title>To Change the Log Level</title>
<p>Use log level to capture more detailed log files when you need to troubleshoot, or to save disk space with less detailed log files when your system is running routinely.</p>
<p>Log levels are:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Debug</b> — Writes the most detailed log file messages.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Info</b> — Writes informational, warning, error, and critical messages to the log file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Warning</b> — Writes warning, error, and critical messages to the log file. Informational messages are not written.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Error</b> — Writes error and critical messages to the log file. Informational and warning messages are not written.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Critical</b> — Writes only critical messages to the log file. Informational, error, and warning messages are not written.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The default log level is Info. To change the default, select a log level from the drop down list.</p>
<p>To view the Administration Dashboard log file:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log into the cloud controller node.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Go to the folder <codeph>/var/log/skyline</codeph>, and view the file skyline.log.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="to-enable-extra-logging"> <title>To Enable Extra Logging</title>
<p>Certain functional areas are set to generate informational messages. Log level does not control the functional area level of log information unless you select that area.</p>
<p>Select a functional area to change log file messages from informational to more detailed messages. You can select the following areas to enable extra logging:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Documents</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Resource Pools</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Topologies</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Service REST APIs</b>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="to-change-proxy-settings"> <title>To Change Proxy Settings</title>
<p>The Admin user can change proxy information from the default values that were entered in the installer. You use a proxy when you upload or create images, and when you provision to HP Cloud Services.</p>
<p>You might need to change your proxy information if your default proxy server fails or if you prefer to use a different proxy server.</p>
<p>You can change the following proxy information:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Proxy Host</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Proxy Port</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Proxy Exceptions</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Proxy Username</b>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Proxy Password</b> and <b>Confirm Proxy Password</b>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic10344/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="cloud-administrator-tasks"> <title>Cloud Administrator Tasks</title>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<p>After your organization works through <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.getting-started.dita" >Getting Started with the Administration Dashboard</xref>, 
cloud administrators can focus on day-to-day cloud administrator tasks. As a best practice, cloud administrators concentrate on 
the <b>Cloud</b> and <b>Region</b> tabs, and are the only users who create external networks or subnets on external networks.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#cloud-tab-tasks" >Cloud Tab Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#region-tab-tasks" >Region Tab Tasks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-access-your-authentication-token" >How to Access Your Authentication Token</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-an-external-network" >How to Create an External Network</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-a-subnet" >How to Create a Subnet</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#administration-dashboard-settings" >Administration Dashboard Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#updates-and-extensions" >Updates and Extensions</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic10344/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="cloud-architect-tasks"> <title>Cloud Architect Tasks</title>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<p>After your organization works through <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.getting-started.dita" >Getting Started with the Administration Dashboard</xref>, cloud architects can focus on day-to-day cloud architect tasks.</p>
<p>As a best practice, cloud architects are mostly concerned with creating deployment profiles, topology designs, and load balancers, 
although they have rights to work with all the tasks listed below.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-import-create-or-delete-a-keypair" >How to Import, Create, or Delete a Keypair</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#networks" >Networks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#routers" >Routers</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.topology-designs.dita" >Topology Designs</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#security-groups-and-rules" >Security Groups and Rules</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic10344/how-to-create-a-standalone-load-balancer">How to Create a Standalone Load Balancer</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-a-project-overview" >How to See a Project Overview</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#running-topologies" >Running Topologies</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#resource-pools" >Resource Pools</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#instances" >Instances</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#volumes" >Volumes</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#images-and-snapshots" >Images and Snapshots</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-a-network-topology-diagram" >How to See a Network Topology Diagram</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#administration-dashboard-settings" >Administration Dashboard Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="how-to-create-a-standalone-load-balancer"> <title>How to Create a Standalone Load Balancer</title>
<p>You can create a standalone (referenced instance) load balancer and use it to provide load-balancing features for one or more provisioned topologies. Create the load balancer and reference it in your deployment profile.</p>
<p>To create a standalone load balancer:</p>
<ol>
<li> Create an image, if it does not already exist. See 
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-an-image" >How to Create an Image</xref>.

</li>
<li> Create the resources required for this activity:
<ul>
<li> Create a keypair, if you do not already have one. See How to Import, Create, or Delete a Keypair.
</li>
<li> Use an existing security group, or create a new one that has access to ssh and the load balancer REST service. See How to Create or Delete a Security Group.
</li>
</ul>
<table>
<tgroup cols="5">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<colspec colname="col3"/>
<colspec colname="col4"/>
<colspec colname="col5"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> IP Protocol </entry>
<entry> From Port </entry>
<entry> To Port </entry>
<entry> Source </entry>
<entry> Access </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> TCP </entry>
<entry> 22 </entry>
<entry> 22 </entry>
<entry> 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR) </entry>
<entry> SSH </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> TCP </entry>
<entry> 21212 </entry>
<entry> 21212 </entry>
<entry> 0.0.0.0/0 (CIDR) </entry>
<entry> Load Balancer <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> REST service </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</li>

<li> Provision a new virtual machine, using the image and resources (above). See How to Launch an Image or Instance Snapshot. </li>

<li> In the Infrastructure &gt; Instances window, find the provisioned load balancer instance and make sure it is in a "Running" power state. </li>

<li> Associate a floating (public) IP address to the provisioned load balancer instance. See How to Associate or Disassociate Floating IPs. </li>

<li> ssh to the provisioned load balancer instance using its floating IP address and the private key (.pem) file. Log in as <b>root</b>. 

<p> <codeph> ssh root@&lt;load balancer's ip address&gt; -i &lt;keypair&gt;.pem </codeph> </p>

<p>
<b>NOTE:</b> If you need to configure a proxy server, you must perform Step 6 before you perform Step 7. </p>  
</li>

<li> Download two debian packages, <codeph> haproxy-vm </codeph> and <codeph> loadbalancer-api </codeph> to the provisioned load balancer instance.
<ul>
<li> <codeph> wget http://&lt;admin node's public ip address&gt;:8091/ubuntu_dvd/extra/files/loadbalancer/haproxy-vm_1.20.0000_all.deb </codeph> </li> 
<li> <codeph> wget http://&lt;admin node's public ip address&gt;:8091/ubuntu_dvd/extra/files/loadbalancer/loadbalancer-api_1.20.0000_all.deb </codeph> </li> 
</ul>
<p>This step requires knowledge of the public IP address for the admin node. Use the ipconfig command to determine the IP address.</p> 

</li> 

<li> If a proxy server is required to access the Internet, make sure the proxy settings are configured on the provisioned load balancer instance.

<ul>
<li> Modify /etc/bash.bashrc by adding the following two lines. HP recommends that you use IP addresses, because DNS is not always available.
<ul>
<li> <codeph> export http_proxy=http://&lt;proxy server ip address&gt;:8080/  </codeph> </li>
<li> <codeph> export https_proxy=http://&lt;proxy server ip address&gt;:8080/ </codeph> </li>
</ul>
</li>

<li> Modify the <codeph> sudoers </codeph> file to ensure the proxy information is available to all programs.

<ul>
<li> <codeph> sudo visudo </codeph> </li>

<li> Add entry: <codeph> Defaults env_keep += "http_proxy,https_proxy" </codeph> . (A space character must exist before and after "+=".) </li> 

<li> <b>Save</b> the changes. </li> 

</ul>
</li> 


<li> Log out of the provisioned load balancer instance, and re-connect as root using ssh to set the proxy settings in the environment. </li>

</ul>
</li> 

<li> On the provisioned load balancer instance, execute the following commands to install prerequisite software.

<ul>
<li> <codeph> apt-get update  </codeph> </li>

<li> <codeph> apt-get install openjdk-7-jre-headless  </codeph> </li>

<li> <codeph> apt-get install haproxy  </codeph> </li>

<li> <codeph> apt-get install tomcat7-user  </codeph> </li>

</ul>
</li>

<li> Install the two debian packages, <codeph> haproxy-vm </codeph> and <codeph> loadbalancer-api </codeph> on the provisioned load balancer instance.

<ul>
<li> <codeph> dpkg -i haproxy-vm_1.20.0000_all.deb </codeph> </li>
<li> <codeph> dpkg -i loadbalancer-api_1.20.0000_all.deb </codeph> </li>
<li> <codeph> start loadbalancer-api </codeph> </li>
</ul>
</li>

<li> In a browser, access the URL: <codeph> http://&lt;load balancer instance's public ip address&gt;:21212/loadbalancer </codeph> to verify that the load balancer 
REST service is running.</li> 

</ol>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> After you create a standalone load 
balancer instance, you can save it as a snapshot. See 
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-an-instance-snapshot" >How to Create an Instance Snapshot</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic10344/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="project-administrator-tasks"> <title>Project Administrator Tasks</title>
<p>Concepts:</p>
<p>After your organization works through <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.getting-started.dita" >Getting Started with the Administration Dashboard</xref>, project administrators can focus on their day-to-day tasks - monitoring and maintaining project resources and content.</p>
<p>Project administrators can perform all of the project user tasks (see Project User Tasks), plus project administrators have rights to modify or delete project resources and content.</p>
<p>As a best practice, project administrators maintain projects, with a focus on the areas you see below.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-import-create-or-delete-a-keypair" >How to Import, Create, or Delete a Keypair</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-a-project-overview" >How to See a Project Overview</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#running-topologies" >Running Topologies</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#resource-pools" >Resource Pools</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#images-and-snapshots" >Images and Snapshots</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-a-private-network-project-tab" >How to Create a Private Network</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-create-a-subnet" >How to Create a Subnet</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#routers" >Routers</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#security-groups-and-rules" >Security Groups and Rules</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.topology-designs.dita#how-to-create-a-deployment-profile" >How to Create a Deployment Profile</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.topology-designs.dita#how-to-create-a-topology-design" >How to Create a Topology Design</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-launch-an-instance" >How to Launch an Instance</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-the-instance-console-console-log-and-overview" >How to See the Instance Console, Console Log, and Overview</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic10344/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="project-user-tasks"> <title>Project User Tasks</title>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<p>After your organization works through <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.getting-started.dita" >Getting Started with the Administration Dashboard</xref>, 
project users can focus on day-to-day project tasks. They create topology designs and deployment profiles, and work extensively on the <b>Project</b> tab. 
Project users' main goal when using the dashboard is to provision topologies.</p>
<p>As a best practice, project users focus on the following tasks.</p>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.topology-designs.dita" >Topology Designs</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-a-project-overview" >How to See a Project Overview</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#running-topologies" >Running Topologies</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#resource-pools" >Resource Pools</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#instances" >Instances</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#volumes" >Volumes</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#images-and-snapshots" >Images and Snapshots</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#networks" >Networks</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#routers" >Routers</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-see-a-network-topology-diagram" >How to See a Network Topology Diagram</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#how-to-import-create-or-delete-a-keypair" >How to Import, Create, or Delete a Keypair</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#floating-ips" >Floating IPs</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita#administration-dashboard-settings" >Administration Dashboard Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic10344/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
