<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2091">
<title>How the Operational Dashboard Works</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.how-opdash-works.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/manage/operational-dashboard/how-opdash-works/--></p>
<p>The Operational Dashboard is used to complete the Cloud OS installation process after the HP Cloud OS Administration Node has been booted with the ISO (see the Install section of the HP Cloud OS Documentation web site). On the Operational Dashboard, you set up your cloud environment, complete the HP Cloud OS Administration node installation and configuration, and create a cloud.</p>
<p>You can then access the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard to view, allocate, and manage all resources within the cloud.</p>
<p>The Operational Dashboard consists of the following tabs:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Environment Tab</b>
</p>

<p>This tab displays the following panels on which you set up your cloud environment and complete the HP Cloud OS Administration node installation. The panels are displayed in the order you must follow for the installation process. For details on each panel, see the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.environment-tab.dita" >Environment Tab</xref> topic.</p>

<ul>
<li>Welcome</li>
<li>Prerequisites</li>
<li>Server Types</li>
<li>Connections</li>
<li>Networks</li>
<li>Complete Install</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Cloud Tab</b>
</p>

<p>This tab displays the following panels on which you complete the installation process to manage the nodes that will be used in your cloud and create a cloud. You can also download install modules or plugins. For details on each panel, see the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.cloud-tab.dita" >Cloud Tab</xref> topic.</p>

<ul>
<li>Overview</li>
<li>Manage Nodes</li>
<li>Manage Clouds</li>
<li>Hot Fixes</li>
<li>Updates and Extensions</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<lq>
  <p>
<b>Note:</b> The Cloud tab does not appear until you have completed the HP Cloud OS Administration node install on the Environment tab. See the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.environment-tab.dita#complete-install" >Complete Install</xref> section of the Environment tab topic.</p>
</lq>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Settings Tab</b>
</p>

<p>The Settings tab displays the following panels on which you can specify user display settings, view the number of days remaining on and update the Cloud OS license, and view the Operational Dashboard and Cloud OS versions. For details on each panel, see the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.settings-tab.dita" >Settings Tab</xref> topic.</p>

<ul>
<li>User Settings</li>
<li>License</li>
<li>About</li>
</ul>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2091/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</body>
</topic>
