<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2551">
<title>Operational Dashboard: Settings Tab</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.settings-tab.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/manage/operational-dashboard/settings-tab/--></p>
<p>
  <!--Removed anchor point _top--><!-- id="_top" --> 
</p>
<p>The Settings tab contains the following panels:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2551/user-settings">User Settings</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2551/license">License</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2551/about">About</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For procedural instructions, see <xref href="../cloudos/install.dita" >Install and Configure Your Clouds</xref>.</p>
<section id="user-settings"> <title>User Settings</title>
<p>This topic provides details about the User Settings panel. The following table describes the User Settings UI elements:</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> UI Elements </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> Language </entry>
<entry> Defaults to English (en). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Timezone </entry>
<entry>    Defaults to UTC (Coordinated Universal Time). To change the default, select the timezone for your area from the drop-down list. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Table page size </entry>
<entry> Defaults to 10 - a maximum of 10 line items can be displayed at one time. To change the default, enter a different number. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Log level </entry>
<entry> Defaults to Info. The five levels used for message logging are, in order of gravity: Critical, Error, Warning, Info, and Debug. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2551/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="license"> <title>License</title>
<p>This topic provides details about the License panel.</p>
<p>On the License page, you can view the number of days remaining on your current HP Cloud OS license, and update the license if necessary. The following table describes the License UI elements:</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> UI Elements </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> <required-cleanup remap="nobr">
<ph> Number of days remaining </ph>
</required-cleanup> on current license </entry>
<entry> The number of days currently remaining on the HP Cloud OS license. This field will show zero (0) when the license is expired. 
If the license is expired, you cannot use the HP Cloud OS dashboards until you renew the license. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Instance ID </entry>
<entry> A unique alphanumeric string that identifies the particular installation of HP Cloud OS to which the license applies. 
You must provide this identifier to HP Support in order to obtain a valid license key, and the license key will be valid only 
for the HP Cloud OS installation having this Instance ID.  </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> License key </entry>
<entry> Enter a valid license key into this field and click the Save button to update the HP Cloud OS license. 
Contact your HP Support representative to obtain a valid license key. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><p> <b>Note:</b> After you click the <b>Save</b> button, 
about 20 minutes elapses before the new license is activated.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Log level </entry>
<entry> Defaults to Info. The five levels used for message logging are, in order of gravity: Critical, Error, Warning, Info, and Debug. </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="about"> <title>About</title>
<p>The About panel displays the version of the Operational Dashboard and the HP Cloud OS build, and the copyrights.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2551/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
