<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic9804">
<title>Welcome to the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.welcome.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/manage/administration-dashboard/welcome/--></p>
<p>
  <!--Removed anchor point _top--><!-- id="_top" --> 
</p>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/why-you-use-the-administration-dashboard">Why You Use the Administration Dashboard</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/administration-dashboard-look-and-feel">Administration Dashboard Look and Feel</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>Tasks:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/prerequisites-to-accessing-the-administration-dashboard">Prerequisites to Accessing the Administration Dashboard</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/how-to-log-in-to-the-administration-dashboard">How to Log in to the Administration Dashboard</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="why-you-use-the-administration-dashboard"> <title>Why You Use the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p>You can use the Administration Dashboard as a simplified means of creating and managing HP Cloud OS resources, topology designs, and deployment profiles.</p>
<p>The Administration Dashboard also provides the ability to provision a composite topology described by the topology templates and infrastructure design 
documents. The Administration Dashboard is associated with a single cloud.</p>
<p>You can use the Administration Dashboard to view, allocate, and manage all virtual resources within a cloud.</p>
</section>
<section id="administration-dashboard-look-and-feel"> <title>Administration Dashboard Look and Feel</title>
<p>
  <b>Concepts:</b>
</p>
<p>The Administration Dashboard provides customized views by role. You see only the tabs and panels you need to do your job.</p>
<p>
  <b>Related topics:</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/administration-dashboard-roles">Administration Dashboard Roles</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9804/administration-dashboard-tabs">Administration Dashboard Tabs</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="administration-dashboard-roles"> <title>Administration Dashboard Roles</title>
<p>Roles define the type of access a user is granted within the cloud.</p>
</section>
<section id="cloud-level-roles"> <title>Cloud Level Roles</title>
<p>
<b>Admin user:</b> Admin role is best suited to create projects, and create users and assign the users to project. The Admin role can view domains and services, and delete protected images.</p>
<p> <b>Caution:</b> 
Although the Admin user has extensive permission rights, the user role is nontraditional and very limited in function. 
Due to a defect located in the Keystone identity service, the Admin user should only create projects and create users. 
If an Admin user attempts other tasks, the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard returns unpredictable functionality. 
In particular, an Admin user should not remove users from projects. </p>
<p>
<b>Cloud Administrator:</b> All administrator rights associated with the cloud and all HP Cloud OS services, including the ability to make resources available to users. Has global permission across the cloud, including all regions and projects.</p>
<p>
<b>Cloud Architect:</b> Creates topology designs, deployment profiles, and load balancers.</p>
</section>
<section id="project-level-roles"> <title>Project Level Roles</title>
<p>
<b>Project Administrator:</b> Has rights to modify and delete project resources and content. Multiple users can be assigned the role of project administrator.</p>
<p>
<b>Project Users:</b> Own only the content and resources they create. Project users can modify or delete the content and resources they own. They can also use shared resources with their project and cloud.</p>
</section>
<section id="ownership-rules"> <title>Ownership Rules</title>
<p>General rules about ownership in the Administration Dashboard include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>To create resources or content within a project, you must be associated with the project and have either an administrative role or a specific creation role. The project user role automatically includes creation roles for most types of resources.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A project administrator can modify the project's resources and content. Non-administrators can modify only the resources and content they create.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Users with a specific publishing role can scope content Public, Project.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Cloud administrators can scope content Public, Cloud.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="visibility-rules"> <title>Visibility Rules</title>
<p>General rules about visibility in the Administration Dashboard include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Project users can see all the project's Public scoped resources and content. The scope can be Public, Cloud or Public, Project.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Project users cannot see content within their project if the content was created by other users and scoped Private, Project or Private, Cloud.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>All users can see content that is marked Public, Cloud.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic9804/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="administration-dashboard-tabs"> <title>Administration Dashboard Tabs</title>
</section>
<section id="settings-tab"> <title>Settings Tab</title>
<p>Every HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard user can see the Settings tab.</p>
<p>Every window in the Administration Dashboard provides a link to this tab.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> Panel </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> User </entry>
<entry> To select various user settings such as language, time zone, and items per page. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Password </entry>
<entry> To change your password. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> About </entry>
<entry> To view version and copyright information. </entry> 
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="project-tab"> <title>Project Tab</title>
<p>Every HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard user can see the Project tab.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> Panel </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> Overview </entry>
<entry> Displays a Project Usage Summary. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> Provisioning </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Running Topologies </entry>
<entry> Displays a list of the topologies that have been provisioned from deployment profiles. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Deployment Topologies </entry>
<entry> Displays a list of published topology designs. These profiles can be provisioned. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Topology Designs </entry>
<entry> Displays a list of topology designs. A topology design is used for straightforward IaaS deployments, and allows you to 
design in a free-form layout where connection relationships implicitly define the service fulfillment lifecycle.  </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Resource Pools </entry>
<entry> Records that define the access to a specific cloud provider, resources that are made available by the provider, and services 
associated with the resources.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> Infrastructure </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Instances </entry>
<entry> A list of all VMs running within the project.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Volumes </entry>
<entry> All of the disk storage volumes that have been allocated to the project.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Images and Snapshots </entry>
<entry>  Images are all the launchable images (AMI, RAW, and QCOW2 format) that can be used to create new VMs.
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
Snapshots preserve the disk state of running Instances and Volumes.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Networks </entry>
<entry> Define networks and subnets that can be used when building topologies and interconnecting virtual machine instances.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Routers </entry>
<entry> Create routers that can be used in building topologies.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Network Topology </entry>
<entry> Provides a graphical view of virtual machine instances and the layout of the network, based upon the information in the Networks window and Routers window.
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> Access and Security </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry> Security Groups </entry>
<entry> Limit the port into which network traffic can enter the group, to provide some network isolation between VMs. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Keypairs </entry>
<entry> The ssh security keys that let you exchange traffic securely within a VM. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Floating IPs </entry>
<entry> Lists the floating IPs currently in use and lets you allocate additional floating IP addresses to a project. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> API Access </entry>
<entry> Displays the API endpoints for the Cloud OS services. Use the endpoints to access the Cloud OS services REST APIs. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Authentication Token </entry>
<entry> The Administration Dashboard retrieves this token from the Keystone service when you log in to the dashboard. 
You can access the token for use outside the dashboard. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> Updates and Extensions </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>  Updates and Extensions </entry>
<entry> Access the HP Cloud OS Distribution Network to update and upgrade your cloud while it continues to run. </entry> 
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="region-tab"> <title>Region Tab</title>
<p>Only the Admin user and cloud administrators see the Region tab.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> Panel </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> Overview </entry>
<entry> Provides usage information for all regions (in other words, the cloud). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Instances </entry>
<entry> A list of all VMs for all regions (in other words, the cloud). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Info </entry>
<entry> A region-specific list of services, compute services, and default quotas (limits). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Volumes </entry>
<entry> All of the disc storage volumes for all regions (in other words, the cloud).  </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Images </entry>
<entry> A list of images that you can launch for all regions (in other words, the cloud).
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Networks </entry>
<entry> Provides a way to define networks that can be used when building topologies and interconnecting virtual machine instances. 
The list is for all regions (in other words, the cloud).
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Routers </entry>
<entry> Lets you delete routers that can be used in building topologies and connecting instances. The list is for all regions (in other words, the cloud).
</entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Flavors </entry>
<entry> A list of machine configurations that can be used to create new VMs. A flavor describes the amount of memory, number of CPUs, and 
ephemeral disk space available to the VM. The list is for all regions (in other words, the cloud). 
</entry> 
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="cloud-tab"> <title>Cloud Tab</title>
<p>Only the Admin user and cloud administrators can see the Cloud tab.</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry> Panel </entry>
<entry> Description </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry> Services </entry>
<entry> A read-only list of all services running in the cloud. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Domains </entry>
<entry> A read-only list of all domains in the cloud. (Currently, only one domain.) Only the Admin user can see this window. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Projects </entry>
<entry> A list of all projects in the cloud.
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> 
Projects are created by a cloud administrator and allow a group of users to see the same set of resources. 
You can manage projects, add users, and manage user roles. </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Users </entry>
<entry> A list of all users in the cloud.
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> 
Allows you to work with the users (create, delete, and edit). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Roles </entry>
<entry> A list of all roles in the cloud. Allows you to work with the roles (create and delete). </entry> 
</row>
<row>
<entry> Images </entry>
<entry> A list of all images in the cloud.
<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> 
Allows you to work with the images (create, launch and delete). 
</entry> 
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic9804/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="prerequisites-to-accessing-the-administration-dashboard"> <title>Prerequisites to Accessing the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p>Before you can access the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard, someone in your organization must use the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard 
to install, set up, configure, and stand up a cloud environment. Use Operational Dashboard to set up and install an Admin node, create a cloud, 
define compute regions, and apply updates and extensions to your cloud. See the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard Help</xref>.</p>
<p>For instructions on how to use an advanced method of installing a cloud, see <xref href="../cloudos/install.dita" >Install and Configure Your Clouds</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="how-to-log-in-to-the-administration-dashboard"> <title>How to Log in to the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p> <b>Important:</b> Use Google Chrome or 
Mozilla Firefox to access the Administration Dashboard.</p>
<p>You can access the Administration Dashboard in one of two ways:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Open a browser and type the URL using the public IP address of the Cloud Controller node: Login with the Admin account and password you 
specified on the Create Cloud &gt; Attributes dialog in the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Within the Operational Dashboard, Manage Clouds &gt; More &gt; Launch Dashboard for the cloud you created.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic9804/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
