<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1506">
<title>Before You Begin with the Administration Dashboard Help</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.before-you-begin.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/manage/administration-dashboard/before-you-begin/--></p>
<p>
  <!--Removed anchor point _top--><!-- id="_top" --> 
</p>
<p>Before you begin with the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help, take a few minutes to understand how the help content is organized. 
You can find information in this suggested order:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Conceptual introduction and prerequisites. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.welcome.dita" >Welcome to the HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A Getting Started topic that provides instructions for how to begin using the dashboard. You can read about responsibilities for each user role, 
and follow links to step-by-step instructions for performing tasks. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.getting-started.dita" >Getting Started with the Administration Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Step-by-step instructions for working with deployment profiles and topology designs. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.topology-designs.dita" >Topology Designs</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A topic that lists all tasks for each role. Use this section to learn which tasks each role can and should perform in the dashboard. 
(This is a comprehensive list, unlike Getting Started.) See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-role.dita" >Administration Dashboard Tasks by Role</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A topic that provides step-by-step instructions for tasks. This section's organization is based on the user interface tabs and windows. 
See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita" >Administration Dashboard Tasks by Tab</xref>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Also, for your convenience, troubleshooting tips are organized and presented in the <xref href="../cloudos/manage.troubleshooting.dita" >Troubleshooting</xref> topic.</p>
</body>
</topic>
