---
layout: default
title: "HP Cloud OS Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements"
permalink: /cloudos/os-3rd-party-license-agreements/
product: cloudos

---

<a name="_top"> </a>

<script> 

function PageRefresh { 
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>


<p style="font-size: x-small;"> <a href="/cloudos/"> &#171; Return to HP Cloud OS documentation home </a> </p>

# HP Cloud OS Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements

Document Release Date: December 2013 <br />
Software Release Date: December 2013

## Legal Notices

### Warranty

The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements 
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional 
warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 
The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.

### Restricted Rights Legend

Confidential computer software. Valid license from HP required for possession, use or copying. Consistent 
with FAR 12.211 and 12.212, Commercial Computer Software, Computer Software Documentation, and 
Technical Data for Commercial Items are licensed to the U.S. Government under vendor's standard 
commercial license.

### Copyright Notice

Hewlett-Packard Company Confidential &copy; Copyright 2012-2013 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.

### Trademark Notices

Adobe &#174; is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

## Disclaimer for Experimental Software

###Warranty

The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements 
accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional 
warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.
HP Cloud OS is experimental and is provided as a courtesy, free of charge, "AS-IS" by Hewlett-Packard 
Company (“HP”). HP shall have no obligation to maintain or support this software. HP MAKES NO 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND REGARDING THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ANY 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NON-
INFRINGEMENT. HP SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL 
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL 
THEORY, IN CONNECTION WITH OR ARISING OUT OF THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE OR USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE.

## Open Source Licenses

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source components under the licenses shown below.

### ANTLR License

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source components that are provided under this license:

* antlr, Version 2.7.7

#### ANTLR 2 License 

We reserve no legal rights to the ANTLR--it is fully in the public domain. An individual or company may do whatever they 
wish with source code distributed with ANTLR or the code generated by ANTLR, including the incorporation of ANTLR, or 
its output, into commerical software. 

We encourage users to develop software with ANTLR. However, we do ask that credit is given to us for developing ANTLR. 
By "credit", we mean that if you use ANTLR or incorporate any source code into one of your programs (commercial product, 
research project, or otherwise) that you acknowledge this fact somewhere in the documentation, research report, etc. If you 
like ANTLR and have developed a nice tool with the output, please mention that you developed it using ANTLR. In addition, 
we ask that the headers remain intact in our source code. As long as these guidelines are kept, we expect to continue 
enhancing this system and expect to make other tools available as they are completed.

### AOP Alliance License

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source component that are provided under this license:

* aopalliance, Version 1

The AOP Alliance project is a joint open-source project between several software engineering people who are 
interested in AOP and Java. 

LICENCE: all the source code provided by AOP Alliance is Public Domain. 

### Apache License Version 2.0

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source components that are provided under this license:

* Apache Abdera, Version 1.1.3
* Apache2, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-doc, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-mpm-event, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-mpm-prefork, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-mpm-worker, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-prefork-dev, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2-utils, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2.2-bin, Version 2.2.22
* Apache2.2-common, Version 2.2.22
* Apache-axiom, Version 1.2.14
* Apache-commons-beanutils, Version 1.8.0
* Apache-commons-cli, Version 1.2
* Apache-commons-codec, Version 1.4, 1.6
* Apache-commons-collections, Version 3.2.1
* Apache-commons-io, Version 2.4
* Apache-commons-lang, Version 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6
* Apache-commons-lang3, Version 3.1
* Apache-commons-logging, Version 1.0.4, 1.1.1
* Apache-commons-net, Version 3.2
* Apache-mime4j, Version 0.7.2
* Apache-wink-common, Version 1.2.incubating
* Apache-wink-json-provider, Version 1.2.incubating
* Apache-wink, Version 1.2.incubating
* bea-stax-api, Version 1.0.1
* cglib, Version 2.2
* chef, Version 10.8
* crowbar, Version 1.4
* CouchDB, Version 1.3.0
* Derby, Version, 10.9.10
* dropwizard-core, Version 0.6.1
* dropwizard-hibernate, Version 0.6.2
* ezmorph, Version 1.0.6
* google-guice, Version 3
* guava, Version 13.0
* guice-assistedinject, Version 3
* guice-servlet, Version 3
* hibernate-validator, Version 4.3.0
* jackson, Version 1.9.6
* jackson-annotations, Version 2.1.1
* jackson- dataformat-yaml, Version 2.1.1
* jackson- jaxrs-json-provider, Version 2.1.1
* jackson- module-jaxb-annotations, Version 2.1.1
* jackson-mapper, Version 1.9.6
* javassist, Version 3.12.0-GA 3.15.0-GA
* javax.inject, Version 1
* javax.servlet, Version 1.1
* javax-transaction-jta, version 1.1
* jetty-continuation, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-http, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-io, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-security, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-server, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-servlet, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* jetty-util, Version 8.1.8.v20121106
* joda-time, Version 2.1
* json-lib, Version 2.4
* json-smart, Version 1.1.1
* lessc, Version 1.3.3
* libaxiom-java, Version 1.2.14
* libapache2-mod-fcgid, Version  1:2.3.6-1.1
* libapache2-mod-python, Version 3.3.1
* libapache2-mod-python-doc, Version 3.3.1
* libapache2-mod-wsgi, Version 3.3.
* libapache2-svn, Version 1.6.17.
* libgeronimo-activation-1.1-spec-java, Version 1.1
* libgeronimo-stax-1.0-spec-java, Version 1.0.1
* libgoogle-collections-java, Version snapshot-20080530
* libgoogle-gson-java Version 2.2
* libhttpclient-java, Version 4.2.3
* libjava-xmlbuilder-java, Version 0.4
* log4j, Version 1.2.16
* log4j-over-slf4j, Version 1.7.2
* metrics-annotation, Version 2.2.0
* metrics-core, Version 2.2.0
* metrics-jersey, Version 2.2.0
* metrics-jetty, Version 2.2.0
* metrics-logback, Version 2.2.0
* metrics-servlet, Version 2.2.0
* mongo-java-driver, Version 2.7.2
* openstack-cinder, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-dashboard, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-glance, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-keystone, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-nova, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-quantum, Version 2013.1.4
* openstack-swift, Version 2013.1.4
* python-cinderclient, Version 1.0.3
* python-glanceclient, Version 0.9.0
* python-keystoneclient, Version 0.2.3
* python-novaclient, Version 2.13.0, 2.12.0
* python-quantumclient, Version 2.2.0
* python-swiftclient, Version 1.3.0
* swagger-api, Version 0.1.13
* swagger- jaxrs_2.9.1, Version 1.2.1
* tomcat, Version 7.0.26
* woodstox-core, Version 4.1.4
* xalan, Version 2.7.0
* xerces-j2, Version 2.6.2, 2.8.0
* xerces-j2-xml-apis, Version 1.3.02, 1.3.03
* xmlbeans, Version 2.6.0


### Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004<br/>
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
the copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
"control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
exercising permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation
source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
(except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
as of the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
meet the following conditions:

(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that You changed the files; and

(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
the Derivative Works; and

(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
as modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

**APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.**

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
identification within third-party archives.

Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## ASM License

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source component that are provided under this license:

* asm, Version 3.3.1

Copyright &copy; 2000-2011 INRIA, France Telecom <br />
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

### Werken Company License

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source components that are provided under this license:

* jaxen, Version 1.1.1

$Id: LICENSE.txt,v 1.5 2006/02/05 21:49:04 elharo Exp $

Copyright 2003-2006 The Werken Company. All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the Jaxen Project nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived 
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

### XOM License

HP acknowledges the redistribution of the following open source component that are provided under this license:

* xom, Version 1.2.5

XOM is Copyright 2002-2005 Elliotte Rusty Harold.
The XOM source code is published under version 2.1 of the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL). In brief, this 
means there’s no warranty and you can do anything you like with it. However, if you make changes to XOM and redistribute 
those changes, then you must publish your modified version under the LGPL. If you can't abide by these terms, you have two 
options:

* Negotiate with me for a different license.
* Don't redistribute your modified version of XOM.

Also see GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) Version 2.1.

<a href="#_top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

<p style="font-size: x-small;"> <a href="/cloudos/"> &#171; Return to HP Cloud OS documentation home </a> </p>

