<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3559">
<title>HP Cloud OS Video Tutorials</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/prepare.videos.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/prepare/videos/--></p>
<p>To help you learn about HP Cloud OS, we have provided a set of videos tutorials. Enjoy! These same videos are hosted on the HewlettPackardVideos channel of YouTube.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3559/hp-and-openstack">HP and OpenStack(R)</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3559/hp-cloud-os-tutorials">HP Cloud OS Tutorials</xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3559/hp-cloud-security">HP Cloud Security</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="hp-and-openstack"> <title>HP and OpenStack(R)</title>
<p>Here are a few videos that highlight the relationship between HP and OpenStack(R)</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-converged-cloud-brings-openstack-to-the-enterprise"> <title>HP Converged Cloud brings OpenStack(R) to the Enterprise</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>HP Converged Cloud delivers choice, confidence, and consistency. Learn how HP Cloud OS, as part of the HP Converged Cloud portfolio, leverages OpenStack(R) to enable workload portability, simplified installation, and enhanced service lifecycle management.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-coffee-talk-hp-history-with-openstack"> <title>HP Cloud Coffee Talk - HP history with OpenStack(R)</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Eileen Evans, original OpenStack(R) Foundation board member, and HP legal counsel and head of the HP Open Source Program Office, discusses the history of the foundation, current activities, and HP's significant involvement in the OpenStack(R) community.</p>
</section>
<section id="openstack-technology"> <title>OpenStack(R) Technology</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Monty Taylor, Distinguished Technologist and OpenStack(R) Guru, talks about the OpenStack(R) community, HP's contributions to Havana and OpenStack(R) projects, and the future of OpenStack(R)</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-os-tutorials"> <title>HP Cloud OS Tutorials</title>
<p>The following video tutorials walk you through the HP Cloud OS features.</p>
</section>
<section id="converged-cloud-hp-cloud-os-whiteboard-demo"> <title>Converged Cloud: HP Cloud OS Whiteboard Demo</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Mark Perriera, HP Cloud 0S chief architect, introduces the platform, its services, and related OpenStack(R) technology.</p>
</section>
<section id="converged-cloud-coffee-talk-hp-cloud-os"> <title>Converged Cloud Coffee Talk: HP Cloud OS</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>In this video with HP Product Manager JR Horton, we learn how HP Cloud OS leverages OpenStack(R) to help Converged Cloud enable workload portability, simplified installation, and enhanced lifecycle management.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-os-whiteboard-demo-building-a-cloud"> <title>HP Cloud OS Whiteboard Demo - Building a Cloud</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Mark Perriera outlines the steps to build a cloud with HP Cloud OS.</p>
</section>
<section id="converged-cloud-coffee-talk-hp-moonshot-with-hp-cloud-os"> <title>Converged Cloud Coffee Talk: HP Moonshot with HP Cloud OS</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>In this video with HP Product Manager Hari Kannan, we learn about the benefits of HP's Moonshot servers with HP Cloud OS, providing simplified provisioning and management for specific cloud workloads.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-os-whiteboard-demo-infrastructure-templates"> <title>HP Cloud OS Whiteboard Demo - Infrastructure Templates</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Mark Perriera shows how to create and use infrastructure templates for single or multi-tier applications with HP Cloud OS.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-os-whiteboard-demo-hybrid-cloud"> <title>HP Cloud OS Whiteboard Demo - Hybrid Cloud</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>Mark Perriera, HP Cloud 0S chief architect, describes hybrid cloud provisioning using HP Cloud OS. Hybrid cloud means being able to consume services across different cloud instances and in many cases
cloud instances that might be delivered to different types of delivery platforms.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-os-whiteboard-demo-software-defined-networking-sdn"> <title>HP Cloud OS Whiteboard Demo - Software Defined Networking (SDN)</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>In this whiteboard demo, Mark Perriera illustrates SDN with Cloud OS.</p>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-security"> <title>HP Cloud Security</title>
</section>
<section id="hp-cloud-coffee-talk-hp-cloud-security"> <title>HP Cloud Coffee Talk - HP Cloud Security</title>
<required-cleanup remap="iframe">
<ph> </ph>
</required-cleanup>
<p>HP has enhanced Cloud Security across the HP Cloud portfolio. Ben de Bont, CSO of HP Cloud, highlights some of the advanced security offerings and intriguing solutions available to HP Customers.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3559/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
