<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic16162">
<title>HP Cloud OS Glossary</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/prepare.glossary.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/prepare/glossary/--></p>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic16162/a">A</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/b">B</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/c">C</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/d">D</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/e">E</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/f">F</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/g">G</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/h">H</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/i">I</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/j">J</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/k">K</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/l">L</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/m">M</xref> | 
<xref type="section" href="#topic16162/n">N</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/o">O</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/p">P</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/q">Q</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/r">R</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/s">S</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/t">T</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/u">U</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/v">V</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/w">W</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/x">X</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/y">Y</xref> | <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/z">Z</xref>
</p>
<section id="a"> <title>A</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="AbstractionLayer"> <title>Abstraction layer</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A coding layer that provides an intermediary between a programmer and a more complex underlying base code set.  The abstraction layer simplifies the complexities of the 
underlying <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/REST">REST</xref> API and JSON/XML formatting of the <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/RequestAbstraction">request abstraction</xref> layer code.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="acl"> <title>ACL</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Access control list; a list of permissions attached to an object.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="admin-network"> <title>Admin Network</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Used for administrative functions such as Crowbar node installation, TFTP booting, DHCP assignments, KVM, system logs, backups, and other monitoring.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="admin-node"> <title>Admin Node</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The Admin Node is a virtual machine that helps in the creation of your cloud, and the installation of all associated software components. The Admin Node 
manages all other nodes. It assigns IP addresses to the nodes; PXE boots the nodes; configures the nodes; and provides the nodes the necessary software for their roles.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Administration-Dashboard"> <title>Administration Dashboard</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard enables administrators to manage their cloud infrastructure. Tasks include launching instances, 
uploading images, creating resource pools, and using designer tools to create topologies. See also <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Operational-Dashboard">Operational Dashboard</xref>, which is 
used for the initial cloud installation, setup, configuration, and creation, before starting the Administration Dashboard.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="allocation"> <title>Allocation</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Provisioning cloud resources.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="API"> <title>API</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An Application Programming Interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications. 
An API makes it easier to develop a program by providing all the building blocks. A programmer then puts the blocks together. 
Cloud OS provides a REST API so that programmers can write applications consistent with the operating environment.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="api-key"> <title>API key</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An API-based key used for authentication purposes, such as an OpenStack(R) Keystone token.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="authentication"> <title>Authentication</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>In the context of the Identity Service, the act of confirming the identity of a user or the truth of a claim. The Identity Service will confirm that incoming request 
are being made by the user who claims to be making the call by validating a set of claims that the user is making. These claims are initially in the form of a set of credentials 
(username &amp; password, or user access keys). After initial confirmation, the Identity Service will issue the user a token which the user can then provide to demonstrate 
that their identity has been authenticated when making subsequent requests.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="authentication-token"> <title>Authentication Token</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>String which must be used for subsequent requests to other services.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="b"> <title>B</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="barclamp"> <title>Barclamp</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Also known as an install module, defines the capability of a service or role to apply to individual hosts or a set of hosts. To deploy a barclamp, a proposal is created.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="baremetal-node"> <title>Baremetal Node</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Also known as a Baremetal Host, refers to a physical machine that runs the nova-compute and nova-baremetal-deploy-helper services. The Baremetal Node is controlled by the compute host, and functions like a hypervisor by providing power management and imaging services.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="baseboard-management-controller-bmc"> <title>Baseboard Management Controller (BMC)</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) is the intelligence in the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) architecture. BMC is a specialized microcontroller 
embedded on the motherboard of a server. The BMC manages the interface between system management software and platform hardware.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="block-storage"> <title>Block storage</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Information stored in raw form, with no consideration as to the type of information.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="bootable-image"> <title>Bootable Image</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
<i>See</i> <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/VolumeBootable">Volume (bootable)</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="broad-network-access"> <title>Broad network access</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Broad network access means the capabilities are available over the network and are accessed through standard 
mechanisms that promote the use by heterogenous thin-client or thick-client platforms.  Examples: mobile phones, tablets, laptops 
and workstations.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="c"> <title>C</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="cli"> <title>CLI</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Command-line interface.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="cloud-computing"> <title>Cloud computing</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of 
configurable computing resources.  These resources include networks, servers, storage, applications and services. 
An advantage of cloud computing is that the resources can be provisioned or released rapidly, with minimal 
management effort or service provider interaction.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="cloud-controller"> <title>Cloud Controller</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A node that hosts software which controls your Infrastructure as Service (IaaS) cloud computing platform. Contains those services that are considered single services for a cloud environment, such as Keystone, Glance, Graffiti, Eve, and Focus, and define the boundaries of the cloud environment from an identity standpoint. 
<i>See also</i> <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Compute-Region-Controller">Compute Region Controller</xref>, <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Network-Controller">Network Controller</xref>, and <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Storage-Controller">Storage Controller</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="hp-helion-distribution-network-hdn"> <title>HP Helion Distribution Network (HDN)</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A catalog-based Cloud OS service that allows off-the-shelf content (like workloads, images, and patches) to be imported into your deployed cloud. To access HDN, see the 
Updates &amp; Extensions panel in the HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard or HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard. You can import content from the HDN portal or from a local folder.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="compute-node"> <title>Compute Node</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Hosts the Cloud virtual machine instances using any supported hypervisor with OpenStack(R) In the current release, HP Cloud OS supports KVM as hypervisor. The compute node hosts OpenStack(R) services called Nova-compute and Neutron l2 agent. Multiple Compute Region Nodes can be created to expand cloud capacity.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Compute-Region-Controller"> <title>Compute Region Controller</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Responsible for scheduling a launch of instances across compute nodes. You can have multiple compute regions in your cloud.  A compute region is 
a pool of compute resources that can be consumed through a service API by consumers of the cloud, such as Nova. The scheduling is based on varied flavors 
of instances and available resources on the compute nodes. In a single compute region deployment model, this can coexist with cloud controller services.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="credentials"> <title>Credentials</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Data that belongs to, is owned by, and generally only known by a user, which that user can present to prove their identity.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="d"> <title>D</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="deprovisioning"> <title>Deprovisioning</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Deallocating a cloud resource. See <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Provisioning">Provisioning</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="domain"> <title>Domain</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A security grouping that provides context for the definition of projects, users, and roles. A domain is constructed by installing and naming a Keystone service. Keystone provides user authentication and tracks projects in a domain.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="e"> <title>E</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="ec2"> <title>EC2</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Elastic compute cloud; Amazon's cloud computing platform.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="eve"> <title>Eve</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An HP Cloud OS composite provisioning service that uses a topology design and profile to create VMs, volumes, and network segments as described in the topology. Eve uses Graffiti service for determining resource pool existence, traits, and User identity mapping.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="f"> <title>F</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Flavor"> <title>Flavor</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The compute, memory, and storage capacity of Baremetal instances.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="floating-ip-address"> <title>Floating IP address</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An on-demand, allocatable public IP address on a network. You can allocate a number of floating IP addresses up to the quota limit, and then assign them to server <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Instance">instances</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="focus"> <title>Focus</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An HP Cloud OS repository for topology templates and profiles that are used for provisioning.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="g"> <title>G</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="graffiti"> <title>Graffiti</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The HP Cloud OS Resource Pool Registry and Capability Tagging Service, providing a dictionary of the "capabilities" of all the resources in a cloud environment; a searchable directory to find cloud resources based on their capabilities; the mechanism for dynamic binding, allowing you to describe requirements rather than concrete bindings; and the base concepts of requirements and capabilities within TOSCA.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="h"> <title>H</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="hybrid-cloud"> <title>Hybrid cloud</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>In a hybrid cloud, the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more distinct cloud infrastructures (private or public) 
that remain unique entities, but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application 
portability, such as cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="i"> <title>I</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Image"> <title>Image</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>1) An installable release package of a program, application, or software system.  2) A copy of a virtual server including the operating system information, system state, and application configurations.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Instance"> <title>Instance</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A Baremetal instance that runs inside the cloud.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
<!--
###Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI)###
:    A standardized computer system interface used by system administrators for out-of-band management of computer systems and monitoring of their operation. It is a way to manage a computer that may be powered off or otherwise unresponsive by using a network connection to the hardware rather than to an operating system or login shell.

###IPMI Network###
:    The network that connects the Baremetal host to the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) of the Moonshot chassis.

###IPMI/BMC Network###
:    A defined network that the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) tool calls to assign an IP address to the Baseboard Management Controller (BMC). 
-->
</section>
<section id="j"> <title>J</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="job"> <title>Job</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A job is created when the user submits a desired topology to the HP Cloud OS Eve service API, and requests provisioning based on the 
topology. Eve creates the job, for which the Eden Service API framework then publishes status updates. Once the provisioning is finished, the job is marked as completed.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="k"> <title>K</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="key-pair"> <title>Key pair</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A pair of key values used for verification purposes; generally one key value is private, and the other public (i.e. user-owned).</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="l"> <title>L</title>
</section>
<section id="m"> <title>M</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="measured-service"> <title>Measured service</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Measured service means cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource usage by leveraging a metering capability.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
This metering may occur at some level of abstraction that's appropriate to the type of service, such as storage, processing 
power, bandwidth, and the number of active users.  Resource usage may be monitored, controlled, and reported.  Measured service 
provides transparency for the provider and the consumer of the utilized service.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="model-abstraction"> <title>Model abstraction</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A coding layer that provides a more functional and user-friendly abstraction for the <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Rest">REST</xref> API programming calls. For example, instead of a direct call to GET containers, via the model abstraction layer the programming call for GET container <b>container-name</b> is <codeph>directories.get("container-name")</codeph> .</p>
</dd>
<dd>A model layer can also include particular kinds of objects, and expose those objects characteristics using simple properties or attributes. For example, "Server" is a model that represents the concept of a virtual <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Instance">instance</xref>, with the "Server" model including properties and attributes such as name, <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Flavor">flavor</xref>, <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Image">image</xref>, addresses, and so on.   See also, <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/AbstractionLayer">Abstraction layer</xref>.</dd>
</dlentry>



</dl>
</section>
<section id="n"> <title>N</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Network-Controller"> <title>Network Controller</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A node that manages the networks in the cloud. Contains Neutron's server, l3 agent and DHCP services. It is a single service in a cloud and can co-exist with cloud controller services.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="node"> <title>Node</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A computing resource in a network. In other publications, sometimes called a machine.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
<!-- 
###Nova Flat Network###
:    The private network used for PXE booting the Moonshot cartridges, and enabling communication between the Moonshot cartridges, Baremetal host, and the cloud Network Controller.
-->
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="nova-service"> <title>Nova service</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An OpenStack(R) service to provide a cloud computing fabric controller, the main part of an Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) system. Individuals and organizations can use Nova to host and manage their own cloud computing systems.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="o"> <title>O</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="on-demand-self-service"> <title>On-demand self service</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>With on-demand self service, a consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, 
as needed, automatically, without requiring human interaction with each service provider.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="openstack"> <title>OpenStack(R)</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An open-source cloud computing operating system.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Operational-Dashboard"> <title>Operational Dashboard</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>The HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard is used to install, set up, configure, and stand up a cloud environment See also <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Administration-Dashboard">Administration Dashboard</xref>, which is 
used to manage the cloud that you created.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="p"> <title>P</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="pxe"> <title>Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) Booting</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>PXE is one of the components of Intel's Wired for Management (WfM) specification. It allows a machine to boot from a server on a network prior to booting the operating system on the local hard drive. For more, start on this <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preboot_Execution_Environment" scope="external" format="html" >Wikipedia.org page</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="private-cloud"> <title>Private cloud</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>In a private cloud, the cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization comprising multiple consumers, 
such as business units.  The private cloud may be owned, managed and operated by the organization, a third party. or some combination, 
and it may exist on or off the owner's premises.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="project"> <title>Project</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A grouping that allows users within each group to view and use the same set of resources.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="proposal"> <title>Proposal</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A special configuration for an install module, which is also known as a barclamp. It includes Barclamp-specific settings, and a list of Baremetal hosts to which the proposal should be applied.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Provisioning"> <title>Provisioning</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Allocating, auditing, and monitoring cloud resources for those who accesses and utilizes them.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="public-cloud"> <title>Public cloud</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>In a public cloud,the cloud infrastructure is provisioned for open use by the general public.  It may be owned, managed and operated 
by a business, academic, or government organization, or some combination.  It exists on the premises of the cloud provider.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="public-network"> <title>Public network</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Used for connecting devices that are external to the cloud infrastructure.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="pxe"> <title>PXE</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>
<i>See</i> <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/pxe">Preboot Execution Environment</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="q"> <title>Q</title>
</section>
<section id="r"> <title>R</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="rapid-elasticity"> <title>Rapid elasticity</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Rapid elasticity means capabilities can be provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to scale rapidly outward and inward 
commensurate with demand.  To the consumer, these capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be 
appropriated in any quantity at any time.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="region"> <title>Region</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A set of services, preferably across multiple hosts, to offer private cloud resources of compute and networking to self-service users of your cloud. A region provides a defined set of resources, such as topology templates, infrastructure designs, and services governed by a single HP Cloud OS Keystone identity service.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="resource-pooling"> <title>Resource pooling</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Resource pooling means the provider's computing resources are pooled to server multiple consumers using a 
multi-tenant model. Different physical and virtual resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer 
demand. A characteristic of resource pooling is location independence.  The customer does not need to know or manage or control 
the exact location of the provided resources, but may be able to specify it at a high-level of abstraction, such as a resource's 
country, state, or data center.  Examples of resources include storage, processing power, memory and network bandwidth.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="REST"> <title>REST</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>Representational State Transfer; a model for providing web services of HTTP.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="RequestAbstraction"> <title>Request Abstraction</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A coding layer that provides programming language-specific access to the underlying core code base REST API HTTP calls.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
For example, instead of including a call to the REST API by using HTTP <b>verb</b> (GET), path (/flavors), format (?format=json), 
and the other HTTP attributes, using the request layer you can simplify the call to <codeph>list_flavors()</codeph> (the specific call depends on the 
details of your specific request layer syntax).  The request layer handles all HTTP request and response parsing and exception handling. Also known as the <b>request layer</b>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Role"> <title>Role</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A personality that a user assumes when performing a specific set of operations. A role includes a set of rights and privileges. A user assuming that role inherits 
those rights and privileges.  A token that is issued to a user includes the list of roles that user can assume. Services that are being called by that user determine 
how they interpret the set of roles a user has and which operations or resources each roles grants access to.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="router-ip"> <title>Router IP</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>IP Address of the device that passes network traffic between two different IP addresses as well as subnets.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="s"> <title>S</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Server"> <title>Server</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A compute instance that is created from a <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Flavor">flavor</xref> combined with an <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/Image">image</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Storage-Controller"> <title>Storage Controller</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A node that enables the block storage service. Contains Cinder services that provide block storage and volume connectivity to launched instances. It is a single service in a cloud and can co-exist with Cloud Controller services. Block Storage is not supported currently.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="t"> <title>T</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Tenant"> <title>Tenant</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A collection of HP service subscriptions and/or resources (Compute, Object Storage, etc).</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="TenantID"> <title>Tenant ID</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An ID linking one or more accounts to one or more subscribed services. APIs and Bindings often require a Tenant ID in addition to authentication information.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="Token"> <title>Token</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>An arbitrary bit of text that is used to access resources. Each token has a scope which describes which resources are accessible with it.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="topology-and-orchestration-specification-for-cloud-applications-tosca"> <title>Topology and Orchestration Specification for Cloud Applications (TOSCA).</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A framework used to build cloud topologies. For more, see the <xref href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/tosca/TOSCA/v1.0/os/TOSCA-v1.0-os.html" scope="external" format="html" >TOSCA Specification</xref>.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="u"> <title>U</title>
</section>
<section id="v"> <title>V</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<section id="VolumeBootable"> <title>Volume (bootable)</title>
</section>
</dt>
<dd>
<p>A bootable server, previously saved by a user.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>

</dl>
</section>
<section id="w"> <title>W</title>
</section>
<section id="x"> <title>X</title>
</section>
<section id="y"> <title>Y</title>
</section>
<section id="z"> <title>Z</title>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic16162/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
