<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3422">
<title>HP Cloud OS Identity Service Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/services-identity-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/services/identity/overview/--></p>
<!-- modeled after HP Cloud Networking Getting Started (network.getting.started.md) -->
<p>Based on Keystone, the OpenStack(R) Identity Service, the HP Cloud Identity Service provides one-stop authentication for all HP Public Cloud offerings. Key terms include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>User -- A digital representation of a person, system, or service who uses HP Public Cloud. The Identity Service validates that incoming requests are being made by the user who claims to be making the call. Users have a login and may be assigned tokens to access resources. Users can scope their authentication to a tenant which then limits where and how their tokens can be used to interact with services. Users are associated with tenants based on roles assigned to them with that tenant.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Credentials -- Data that belongs to, is owned by, and generally only known by a user that the user can present to prove they are who they are (since nobody else should know that data).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Authentication -- In the context of the Identity Service, the act of confirming the identity of a user or the truth of a claim. The Identity Service will confirm that incoming request are being made by the user who claims to be making the call by validating a set of claims that the user is making. These claims are initially in the form of a set of credentials (username &amp; password, or user access keys). After initial confirmation, the Identity Service will issue the user a token which the user can then provide to demonstrate that their identity has been authenticated when making subsequent requests.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Token -- An arbitrary bit of text that is used to access resources. Each token has a scope which describes which resources are accessible with it. While the Identity Service supports token-based authentication in this release, the intention is for it to support additional protocols in the future.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Tenant -- A collection of HP service subscriptions and/or resources (Compute, Object Storage, etc).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Endpoint -- A network-accessible address, usually described by URL, where a service may be accessed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Role -- A personality that a user assumes when performing a specific set of operations. A role includes a set of rights and privileges. A user assuming that role inherits those rights and privileges. A token that is issued to a user includes the list of roles that user can assume. Services that are being called by that user determine how they interpret the set of roles a user has and which operations or resources each roles grants access to.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="dashboard"> <title>Using the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p>You can use the Administration Dashbord to access HP Cloud OS Identity service. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita" >Administration Dashboard Tasks by Tab</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="API"> <title>Using the API to access Identity</title>
<p>You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to HP Cloud OS Identity. See the <xref href="/api/v13/identity/" >HP Cloud OS Identity Service API page</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="cli"> <title>Using the CLI</title>
<p>You can use any of several command-line interface software to access HP Cloud OS Identity. See <xref href="/cli/" >HP Cloud OS CLI</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="bindings"> <title>Using language bindings</title>
<p>You can use any of several language bindings to access HP Cloud OS Identity. See <xref href="/bindings/" >HP Cloud binding support</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="for-more-information"> <title>For more information</title>
<p>Also see the Help topics that are available in the Operational Dashboard and Administration Dashboard.  Website copies are available:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
