<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3212">
<title>HP Cloud OS Image Service Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/services-imaging-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/services/imaging/overview/--></p>
<!-- modeled after HP Cloud Networking Getting Started (network.getting.started.md) -->
<p>The HP Cloud OS Image Service is a web service for managing virtual machine images. It provides a set of RESTful APIs that enables querying/updating of image metadata as well as retrieval of the actual image data.</p>
<p>Key terms include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Image Files -- An image file refers to a virtual disk image file that HP Compute service can load up to create a virtual machine.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Image Metadata -- The metadata of an image includes all the information about the image, e.g. image identifier, name, status, size, disk format, container format, owner, and custom properties. Not all metadata are required to be specified with a value when adding a new image to HP Cloud Image Service</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Name -- Its value should be the name of the image. Note that the name of an image is not unique</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Identifier -- Each image has an identifier, which is guaranteed to be unique to a Region. Images identifiers are UUIDs, commonly represented in hexadecimal string notation.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Status -- Images in HP Cloud Image Service can be in one the following statuses: queued, saving, active, killed, deleted, or pending_delete.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Disk and Container Format -- When adding an image to HP Cloud Image Service, specifying the image's disk format and container format is required.</p>

<p>The disk format of a virtual machine image is the format of the underlying disk image. Virtual appliance vendors have different formats for laying out the information contained in a virtual machine disk image.</p>

<p>The container format refers to whether the virtual machine image is in a file format that also contains metadata about the actual virtual machine.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Size -- The image size in Bytes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Checksum -- The MD5 checksum of the image file data.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Min-ram -- The minimum ram required in megabytes to run this image on a HP Compute server. Please refer to HP Compute document for more details about this property.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Min-disk -- The minimum disk space required in gigabytes to run this image on a HP Compute server.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Owner -- HP Cloud Image Service normally sets the owner of an image to be the Project/Tenant ID of the authenticated user adding the image.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Custom Image Properties -- HP Cloud OS Image Service allows a set of custom, free-form image properties stored with the image metadata.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="dashboard"> <title>Using the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p>You can use the Administration Dashbord to access HP Cloud OS Imaging service. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita" >Administration Dashboard Tasks by Tab</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="API"> <title>Using the API to access Imaging</title>
<p>You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to HP Cloud OS Imaging service. See the <xref href="/api/v13/image/" >HP Cloud OS Image Service API page</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="cli"> <title>Using the CLI</title>
<p>You can use any of several command-line interface software to access HP Cloud OS Image service. See <xref href="/cli/" >HP Cloud OS CLI</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="bindings"> <title>Using language bindings</title>
<p>You can use any of several language bindings to access HP Cloud OS Image service. See <xref href="/bindings/" >HP Cloud binding support</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="for-more-information"> <title>For more information</title>
<p>Also see the Help topics that are available in the Operational Dashboard and Administration Dashboard.  Website copies are available:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
