<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1601">
<title>HP Cloud OS Networking Service Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./cloudos/services-networking-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /cloudos/services/networking/overview/--></p>
<!-- modeled after HP Cloud Networking Getting Started (network.getting.started.md) -->
<p>Leveraging OpenStack(R) Networking, HP Cloud OS Networking is a virtual networking service that provides network connectivity and addressing for HP Cloud OS Compute devices.</p>
<p>In the 13.5 release, HP Cloud OS Compute and Networking services are separate entities, integrating services and providing new features.</p>
<p>You can use the default network to deploy HP Cloud OS compute virtual servers, or modify the default network to expand networking capabilities.</p>
<p>You can now define and configure your own virtual network topology, including control of IP address ranges.</p>
<section id="dashboard"> <title>Using the Administration Dashboard</title>
<p>You can use the Administration Dashbord to access HP Cloud OS Networking service. See <xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.tasks-by-tab.dita" >Administration Dashboard Tasks by Tab</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="API"> <title>Using the API to access Networking</title>
<p>You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to HP Cloud OS Networking. See the <xref href="/api/v13/networking/" >HP Cloud OS Networking Service API page</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="cli"> <title>Using the CLI</title>
<p>You can use any of several command-line interface software to access HP Cloud OS Networking. See <xref href="/cli/" >HP Cloud OS CLI</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="bindings"> <title>Using language bindings</title>
<p>You can use any of several language bindings to access HP Cloud OS Networking. See <xref href="/bindings/" >HP Cloud binding support</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="for-more-information"> <title>For more information</title>
<p>Also see the Help topics that are available in the Operational Dashboard and Administration Dashboard.  Website copies are available:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.operational-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Operational Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../cloudos/manage.administration-dashboard.dita" >HP Cloud OS Administration Dashboard Help</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
