<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3709">
<title>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community Installation Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./community/community.install-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/community/install-overview/--></p>
<p>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community is installed using <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/TripleO" scope="external" format="html" >TripleO</xref> which uses three linked installation phases to deploy a complete <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> cloud.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Seed  - The seed VM is started as a VM from a specific seed VM image. It contains a number of self-contained <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> components that are used to deploy the undercloud. The seed deploys the undercloud by using the HP Ironic service to deploy a specific undercloud machine image.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Undercloud - The undercloud is a complete <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> installation, which is then used to deploy the overcloud. In HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community, the undercloud can be a separate baremetal server or a virtual machine on the Seed host.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Overcloud<!--Removed anchor point overcloud--><!-- id="overcloud" --> - The overcloud is the end-user <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> cloud. In HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community, the undercloud can be separate baremetal servers or virtual machines on the Seed host.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>With HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community, you can quickly and easily spin up clouds using two types of installation paths:</p>
<ul>
<li>A virtual installation for testing and proof-of-concept use. In the virtual installation, TripleO simulates the deployment of <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> by creating and configuring a set of virtual machines (VMs) that play the roles that baremetal machines would in a non-cloud deployment.</li>
<li>A multi-node, barmetal installation for small-scale production. For the baremetal installation, you will need to have available enough baremetal servers to accommodate your installation, as described in <xref href="../community/community.hwsw-requirements.dita" >Community Hardware and Software Requirements</xref>.</li>
</ul>
<section id="virtual-installation"> <title>Virtual installation</title>
<p>This demonstration release is designed to let you test the functionality of HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community. It is not intended to be used in a production environment to run real workloads, and therefore no support is available.</p>
<p>This installation is a fixed, virtual configuration of:</p>
<ul>
<li>1 undercloud</li>
<li>3 overcloud controllers</li>
<li>2 overcloud swift nodes </li>
<li>1 overcloud compute node </li>
</ul>
<p>In addition, an installation system, called the seed cloud host, that meets the following configuration is required:</p>
<ul>
<li>At least 64 GB of RAM</li>
<li>At least 200 GB of available disk space</li>
</ul>
<p>
<xref href="../community/community.install.virtual.dita" >Learn how to install and configure a virtual cloud</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="baremetal-installation"> <title>Baremetal installation</title>
<p>This HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community baremetal multi-node deployment is for a small-scale, private cloud.</p>
<p>The installation deploys to a minimum 7 baremetal server configuration:</p>
<ul>
<li>1 undercloud</li>
<li>3 overcloud controllers</li>
<li>2 overcloud swift nodes </li>
<li>
<p>At least 1 overcloud compute node</p>

<p>Two of the overcloud controllers provide for high availability failover. You can use the <b>Icinga Dashboard</b> as described in <xref href="../community/community.services-icinga.dita" >Using the Icinga Service</xref>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>In addition, an installation system, called the seed cloud host, that meets the following configuration is required:</p>
<ul>
<li>At least 64 GB of RAM</li>
<li>At least 200 GB of available disk space</li>
</ul>
<p>
<xref href="../community/community.install.baremetal.dita" >Learn how to install and configure a baremetal cloud</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="next-steps"> <title>Next Steps:</title>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Review the information on the minimum requirements for your hardware and software before starting the installation. See <xref href="../community/community.hwsw-requirements.dita" >Hardware and Software Requirements</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For more information on HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> Community, see:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../community/community.faq.dita" >FAQ</xref> </li>
<li>
<xref href="../community/community.release-notes.dita" >Release notes</xref> </li>
</ul>
<p>
<xref href="#topic3709"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
