<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1509">
  <title><tm tmtype="reg">HP Helion OpenStack</tm>Community: Logging into the Dashboards</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./community/community.dashboard.launch.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/community/dashboard/login/--></p>
  <p>The <xref href="../community/community.dashboard.how-works.dita" ><tm tmtype="reg">HP Helion OpenStack</tm>Community dashboards</xref> are browser-based user interfaces that allow you to interact with the <tm tmtype="reg">HP Helion OpenStack</tm>Commercial overcloud.</p>
<p>To log into the Helion dashboard:</p>
<ol>
<li> Ask the cloud operator for the host name or public IP address from which you can access the
        dashboard, and for your user name and password.<p>
          <b>Note:</b> When accessing Horizon in a virtual environment, use the public network
          address, not the management network address. In a default configuration, the URL is
          http://192.0.8.2.</p></li>
<li>Open a web browser that has JavaScript and cookies enabled.</li>
<li>In the address bar, enter the host name or IP address for the dashboard.<p>
          <b>Note:</b> If a certificate warning appears when you try to access the URL for the first
          time, a self-signed certificate is in use, which is not considered trustworthy by default.
          Verify the certificate or add an exception in the browser to bypass the warning.</p></li>
<li>On the Log In page, enter your user name and password, and click <b>Sign In</b>.</li>
<li>If you are a non-admin user, select a project from the list at the top of the screen.</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1509/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</body>
</topic>
