<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10581">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Troubleshooting</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This topic describes all the known issues that you might encounter. </p>
    <section><title>VM failure to get private/Fixed IP address</title>Memphis region deployment is
      done with basic verification. Configuration of VRS-G is done as per the cookbook <xref
        href="https://wiki.hpcloud.net/download/attachments/49089763/ESX-DCN-Baremetal-Install-Instructions-HCG2.0-Build9.docx?api=v2"
        format="html" scope="external"
        >https://wiki.hpcloud.net/download/attachments/49089763/ESX-DCN-Baremetal-Install-Instructions-HCG2.0-Build9.docx?api=v2</xref>.
      Using the same cookbook, networks, image, etc are created and VM provisioning is attempted. VM
      launched has private and floating IP seen on dashboard. However, when consoled into VM, there
      is no networking.<p>
        <b>Resolution</b>
      </p><p>Check if the glance image created has right properties set. In this case, glance image
        was created with adapter type lsiLogic instead of ide. Also, check if gateway and subnet
        values are correctly assigned to VRSvAPPs. In this case, it was mistakenly swapped on one of
        the vrsApps. </p></section>
    <section>
      <title>VRSvAPPs missing in VSD dashboard</title>
      <p>
        <b>System Behavior/Message</b>
      </p>
      <p>While performing basic verification of cloud deployment, it is observed that VRSvAPPs are
        missing in VSD. Their TUL addresses are not pingable from VRS-G node. </p>
      <p>Solution: </p>
      <p>Above changes required vswitch1 on VRSvAPPs to be presented on Niantics as well. Once this
        was done, VRSvAPPS were synchronized in VSD dashboard. </p>
      <p>Memphis region deployment is done with following networking changes. </p>
      <p>Networking changes done are as follows –</p>
      <p>ETH0 is active</p>
      <p>ETH1 is off</p>
      <p>UNTAGGED TUL on NIANTICS on DCN, VRS and WR Computes</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>See Also</title>
      <p>For troubleshooting tips related to the HP Helion OpenStack cloud, see <xref
          href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.troubleshooting.dita#topic2105">HP Helion
          OpenStack 1.1: Troubleshooting</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
