<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!--This work by HP Helion Openstack is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See the accompanying LICENSE file for more information.--> <!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd"> <concept id="notification_methods">   <title>Metric Monitoring</title>   <shortdesc>This page allows you to define charts that display data based on the metrics and     parameters you choose. </shortdesc>   <conbody>     <section>       <title>Search</title>       <p>The search bar allows you to filter the notification methods you want to view. </p>     </section>     <section>       <title>Create Chart</title>       <p>The <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol> button beside the search bar allows you to create a         new data chart.</p>       <p>To create a new chart:</p>       <ol>         <li>Click the <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol> button to open a separate window that           allows you to configure a new chart.</li>         <li>Give your chart a <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol>.</li>         <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Type</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>             <li>Line</li>             <li>Bar</li>             <li>Stacked Bar</li>             <li>Area</li>             <li>Stacked Area</li>           </ul></li>         <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Size</uicontrol> in the drop down.  Choices are:         <ul>           <li>Small</li>           <li>Large</li>         </ul></li>         <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Update Rate</uicontrol> in the drop down.  Choices are:         <ul>           <li>1 Minute</li>           <li>5 Minutes</li>           <li>10 Minutes</li>           <li>30 Minutes</li>           <li>1 Hour</li>         </ul></li>         <li>Select a <uicontrol>Time Range</uicontrol> in the drop down.  Choices are:         <ul>           <li>Last 60 Minutes</li>           <li>Last 2 Hours</li>           <li>Last 4 Hours</li>           <li>Last 8 Hours</li>           <li>Last 24 Hours</li>           <li>Last 7 Days</li>           <li>Last 30 Days</li>           <li>Last 90 Days</li>         </ul></li>         <li>Select a <uicontrol>Statistical Function</uicontrol> in the drop down.  Choices are:         <ul>           <li>[ None ]</li>           <li>AVG</li>           <li>SUM</li>           <li>MIN</li>           <li>MAX</li>           <li>COUNT</li>         </ul></li>         <li>When done creating the chart, click <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol>. </li>       </ol>     </section>     <section>       <p>After the chart saves, the Metric Monitoring window refreshes with the new chart data         populated in the view.</p>     </section>   </conbody> </concept>
