---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/quick-start/
product: devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1: Development Platform: Prerequisites "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Prerequisites {#index-0}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/user/quick-start/)

This guide covers the basics of using the Application Lifecycle Service (ALS).

To follow along,
you will need:

-   a user account
-   a copy of the Helion CLI client
-   a web browser


## Management Console {#management-console}

The web interface for Application Lifecycle Service is called the [Management Console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/customize/#management-console). You can use it to:

-   see your current usage and quota
-   monitor and manage applications you have deployed
-   see which runtimes, frameworks, and services are available
-   deploy applications from the Marketplace

To use it, open the API Endpoint URL (e.g. *https://api.10.0.0.1.xip.io*) in your favorite browser. Log in with the username and password that have
been set up for you on the system.

The interface should be mostly self-explanatory. It exposes most of the
functionality you have access to as an end user, but to deploy your own
applications from source code on your local machine you will need to install and use the Helion [Application Lifestyle Service client](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/client/#helion-client-setup).

There is also an [Eclipse plugin](/helion/devplatform/1.1/eclipse/) available for the Management Console to facilitate pushing applications.

## Application Lifecycle Service Client {#helion-client}

The Helion client pushes applications and provides access to the system from the command line.

1.  [Download the client for your platform](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/download).
2.  Unzip the archive in a convenient directory.
3.  Add the executable to your system/shell \$PATH by:
	- moving it to a directory in your \$PATH,
	-   creating a symlink from a directory in your \$PATH, or
	-   creating a shell alias for the executable.
4.  Confirm that the client is installed correctly by executing
    `cfmgmt help`.

Refer to the [Application Lifecycle Service Client Command Reference](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-ref-client) for a complete list of commands and options.

### Target and Login {#target-and-login}

To connect the helion client to the PaaS, use
the `target` command to specify the API Endpoint
URL. This is normally the hostname prepended with "api." for example:

	helion target api.example.hphelion.com
	Target:       https://api.example.hphelion.com
	Organization: <none>
	Space:        <none>
	Successfully targeted to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]

Once you have successfully targeted Application Lifecycle Service, you must authenticate
using `helion login` with the credentials that
have been created for you:

	helion login user@example.com
	Attempting login to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
	Password: ********
	Successfully logged into [https://api.example.hphelion.com]


## Setting Organization and Space {#setting-organization-and-space}

If you are logging in for the first time, your user account will not
automatically choose an [Organization and Space](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/orgs-spaces/#orgs-spaces) for deployment. You will need to set these manually.

To set the Organization you belong to:

    helion switch-org *org-name*
    Switching to organization *org-name* ... OK
    Unsetting current space ... OK
    Target:       https://api.stacka.to
    Organization: *org-name*
    Space:        <none>

To set the Space you want to deploy applications to:

    helion switch-space dev
    Switching to organization *org-name* ... OK
    Switching to space dev ... OK
    Target:       https://api.stacka.to
    Organization: test-org
    Space:        dev

**Note**:If your account is not a member of a Space, you will need an
Organization Manager to add you as a Developer. If you are an
Organization Manager or Admin, you can create new Spaces in the
[*Management Console*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/console/customize/#user-console-space) or with the [*helion create-space*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-create-space) command.

## Deploying Apps {#deploying-apps}

The steps for deploying applications will vary slightly depending on the
language or framework used, but the basic command is:

	helion push --as [appname]

By default, the client will take application code from your current
working directory and push it to Application Lifecycle Service for further staging and configuration, prompting for additional configuration information as necessary.

### Sample Applications[](#sample-applications "Permalink to this headline")

Small [sample applications](/helion/devplatform/1.1/appdev/) in various  programming languages are available. These applications demonstrate the basics of ALS deployment (hello world), connect to a database, and exercise the messaging service.

Additional more advanced sample applications are available from [Application Lifecycle Service-Apps](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps) on Github, each with a
README.md file showing how to deploy it on Application Lifecycle Service.

Many of these have a [*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/) configuration
file, so you can skip the interactive prompts by using the
`-n` option.

	helion push -n [appname]

### Test the Application {#test-the-application}

The output of `helion push` will show the URL of
the running application. Paste this URL into a web browser to try the
application or run:

	helion open [appname]

Documentation on configuring applications in specific languages and
frameworks is available in the [*Deploying Apps*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/#deploying-apps) section.

