jgl
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4810">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Prerequisites</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/quick-start/1.1index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/quick-start/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>This guide covers the basics of using the Application Lifecycle Service (ALS).</p>
<p>To follow along,
you will need:</p>
<ul>
<li>a user account</li>
<li>a copy of the Helion CLI client</li>
<li>a web browser</li>
</ul>
<section id="management-console"> <title>Management Console</title>
<p>The web interface for Application Lifecycle Service is called the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.1customize.dita#management-console" >Management Console</xref>. You can use it to:</p>
<ul>
<li>see your current usage and quota</li>
<li>monitor and manage applications you have deployed</li>
<li>see which runtimes, frameworks, and services are available</li>
<li>deploy applications from the Marketplace</li>
</ul>
<p>To use it, open the API Endpoint URL (e.g. <i>https://api.10.0.0.1.xip.io</i>) in your favorite browser. Log in with the username and password that have
been set up for you on the system.</p>
<p>The interface should be mostly self-explanatory. It exposes most of the
functionality you have access to as an end user, but to deploy your own
applications from source code on your local machine you will need to install and use the Helion <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/client/1.1index.dita#helion-client-setup" >Application Lifestyle Service client</xref>.</p>
<p>There is also an <xref href="../../../../devplatform/1.1devplatform.eclipse.dita" >Eclipse plugin</xref> available for the Management Console to facilitate pushing applications.</p>
</section>
<section id="helion-client"> <title>Application Lifecycle Service Client</title>
<p>The Helion client pushes applications and provides access to the system from the command line.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/CLI/1.1ALS_Client_Downloads.dita" >Download the client for your platform</xref>.</li>
<li>Unzip the archive in a convenient directory.</li>
<li>Add the executable to your system/shell \$PATH by:

<ul>
<li>moving it to a directory in your \$PATH,</li>
<li>creating a symlink from a directory in your \$PATH, or</li>
<li>creating a shell alias for the executable.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Confirm that the client is installed correctly by executing
<codeph>helion help</codeph>. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->Refer to the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" >Application Lifecycle Service Client Command Reference</xref> for a complete list of commands and options.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="target-and-login"> <title>Target and Login</title>
<p>To connect the helion client to the PaaS, use
the <codeph>target</codeph> command to specify the API Endpoint
URL. This is normally the hostname prepended with "api." for example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.example.hphelion.com
Target:       https://api.example.hphelion.com
Organization: &lt;none&gt;
Space:        &lt;none&gt;
Successfully targeted to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Once you have successfully targeted Application Lifecycle Service, you must authenticate
using <codeph>helion login</codeph> with the credentials that
have been created for you:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion login user@example.com
Attempting login to [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
Password: ********
Successfully logged into [https://api.example.hphelion.com]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="setting-organization-and-space"> <title>Setting Organization and Space</title>
<p>If you are logging in for the first time, your user account will not
automatically choose an <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1orgs-spaces.dita#orgs-spaces" >Organization and Space</xref> for deployment. You will need to set these manually.</p>
<p>To set the Organization you belong to:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion switch-org *org-name*
Switching to organization *org-name* ... OK
Unsetting current space ... OK
Target:       https://api.stacka.to
Organization: *org-name*
Space:        &lt;none&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To set the Space you want to deploy applications to:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion switch-space dev
Switching to organization *org-name* ... OK
Switching to space dev ... OK
Target:       https://api.stacka.to
Organization: test-org
Space:        dev
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
<b>Note</b>:If your account is not a member of a Space, you will need an
Organization Manager to add you as a Developer. If you are an
Organization Manager or Admin, you can create new Spaces in the
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/admin/console/1.1customize.dita#user-console-space" >
<i>Management Console</i>
</xref> or with the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita#command-create-space" >
<i>helion create-space</i>
</xref> command.</p>
</section>
<section id="deploying-apps"> <title>Deploying Apps</title>
<p>The steps for deploying applications will vary slightly depending on the
language or framework used, but the basic command is:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion push --as [appname]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>By default, the client will take application code from your current
working directory and push it to Application Lifecycle Service for further staging and configuration, prompting for additional configuration information as necessary.</p>
</section>
<section id="sample-applications"> <title>Sample Applications</title>
<p>Small <xref href="../../../../devplatform/1.1devplatform.appdev.dita" >sample applications</xref> in various  programming languages are available. These applications demonstrate the basics of ALS deployment (hello world), connect to a database, and exercise the messaging service.</p>
<p>Additional more advanced sample applications are available from <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps" scope="external" format="html" >Application Lifecycle Service-Apps</xref> on Github, each with a
README.md file showing how to deploy it on Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<p>Many of these have a <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1manifestyml.dita" >
<i>manifest.yml</i>
</xref> configuration
file, so you can skip the interactive prompts by using the
<codeph>-n</codeph> option.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion push -n [appname]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="test-the-application"> <title>Test the Application</title>
<p>The output of <codeph>helion push</codeph> will show the URL of
the running application. Paste this URL into a web browser to try the
application or run:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion open [appname]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>Documentation on configuring applications in specific languages and
frameworks is available in the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/deploy/1.1index.dita#deploying-apps" >
<i>Deploying Apps</i>
</xref> section.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
