<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2139">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Managing System
    Configuration</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade 2.0"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p><!--UNDER REVISION--><!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-controller-hostaggregate.md--><!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/hostaggregate/--></p>
    <!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
    <p>You can make changes to the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade's initial configuration at any
      time after installation. The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade's initial configuration is
      defined during software installation. After installation, you can make changes using the web
      administration interface or the CLI. For most types of changes, you can do this without
      interrupting system operations.</p>
    <p>
      <b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in regionone.</p>
    <p>You can change the initial configuration as follows: <ul id="ul_gsk_ql2_jt">
        <li>Reconfigure aspects of the External OAM network, including the subnet, controller IP
          addresses, gateway IP address, and floating IP address. </li>
        <li>Change the DNS server IP addresses.</li>
        <li>Change the NTP server IP addresses. </li>
        <li>Change the disk allocations for database storage, image storage, backup storage, and
          Cinder volume storage. </li>
        <li>Add an infrastructure network if one is not already configured</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>Immediately before making a change, ensure the following: <ul id="ul_mzz_tl2_jt">
        <li>All hosts are unlocked. </li>
        <li>No Major or Critical alarms are shown for the system on <xref
            href="../FaultManagement/CGH-2-Userfault-mgmt-alarms.dita#topic2139">the Fault
            Management page</xref>. </li>
        <li>No 250.001 Configuration out-of-date alarms are shown for the system on <xref
            href="../FaultManagement/CGH-2-Userfault-mgmt-alarms.dita#topic2139">the Fault
            Management page</xref>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>During these changes, the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade can remain online and
      operational.</p>
    <p>You can make the following changes:<ul id="ul_ep5_dn2_jt">
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-User-system-config-OAM.dita#topic2139">Change the OAM IP
            address</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-User-system-config-DNS.dita#topic2139">Configure a new DNS
            server</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-User-system-config-NTP.dita#topic2139">Configure a new NTP
            server</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="CGH-2-User-system-config-filesyst.dita#topic2139">Change storage space
            allotments on the controller</xref>. For important information and instructions for
          changing storage allotments, see the <i>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0
            Carrier Grade: Administrator Guide</i>.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>For more information on system configuration, see the <i>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg"
          >OpenStack</tm> 2.0 Carrier Grade: Administrator Guide</i>.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
