<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_e32_tm2_rt">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Removing a VSA Node </title>
  <body><!--Needs Edit-->
    <p>This process is used when you want to remove storage system/VSA node from a
      cluster/management group for maintenance using HPE Storevirtual Management Console(CMC). After
      maintenance the VSA node is added back to the cluster. <note type="caution">
        <ul id="ul_a2n_kp2_rt">
          <li>To have the volumes available even after the VSA storage node goes offline, you must
            ensure that the VSA network RAID configuration/data protection aspects are taken care
            prior to removing a VSA node. </li>
          <li>See <i>Using disk RAID with Network RAID in a cluster</i>, <i>Planning the RAID
              configuration</i>, and the <i>Data protection</i> sections of HPE StoreVirtual Storage
            Online help (available in <b>StoreVirtual Management Console</b>) before configuring
            RAID. You must configure RAID before adding the storage system to the management group.
            Refer the online help of <b>HPE Storevirtual CMC for configuring the network RAID for
              storage systems.</b> link required...</li>
          <li>You must set the Data protection level while creating the volume type for the VSA
            volumes in Openstack Cinder. The volume type extra spec for setting the data protection
            is <codeph>hplh:data_pl</codeph> (<b>link not working</b>) for HPE LeftHand/StoreVirtual
            storage. For more details refer <xref
              href="http://docs.openstack.org/kilo/config-reference/content/HP-LeftHand-StoreVirtual-driver.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Openstack Cinder configuration guide(Kilo) for HP
              LeftHand/StoreVirtual driver.</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </note></p>
    <section>
      <title>Removing VSA Storage System for maintenance</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to remove VSA storage system for maintenance:<ol
          id="ol_rpx_wp2_rt">
          <li>Review <i>Determining volume and snapshot availability</i> section in <b>HP
              StoreVirtual Storage Online help</b> and ensure that the volume is available if the
            storage system/VSA node that is planned to remove for maintenance goes offline.</li>
          <li>If the repair option is available for the VSA storage system, choose the appropriate
            option in repair. For detail, refer to <i>Using Repair Storage System</i>
            <b>in HPE StoreVirtual Storage Online help in CMC.</b><p>OR</p><p>If the repair option is
              unavailable, perform either of the below operations to remove the VSA storage system
              for maintenance:</p><p>Refer<i> Maintaining storage systems in clusters</i> section in
              HPE StoreVirtual Storage Online help in CMC and perform any of the below operations to
              ensure that the cluster functions normally and the volumes continue to be available
              even after the storage system is removed/replaced.</p><p>
              <ul id="ul_dmj_sq2_rt">
                <li>Add and remove storage systems for an existing cluster (The new storage system
                  from the list of available VSA storage systems as shown in CMC). </li>
                <li>Exchange a storage system in a cluster. </li>
                <li>Removing a storage system from a cluster (provided the remaining storage system
                  is sufficient for the data availability, a minimum of 3 nodes should be available
                  after the remove operation). Once the maintenance is done, the storage system may
                  be added back to the cluster. Follow the instructions for <b>"Adding a storage
                    system to a cluster"</b> to add the VSA storage system back to the cluster.</li>
              </ul>
            </p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
    <p>
      <note type="important">While removing VSA storage system permanently, the operator needs to
        ensure there is odd number of managers running to avoid split brain syndrome. For example,
        if there are five nodes and one node is getting removed the operator needs to stop the
        manager running on any of the remaining four nodes</note>
    </p>
    <section>
      <title><b>Exclude the VSA node that's offline(removed for maintenance purpose) for further
          reconfiguration/updates until it's back online</b></title>
      <p>Even after the removable of a VSA node, it should continue to remain in
          <codeph>data/servers.yml</codeph> file. It is also recommended to create a
          <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file on the deployer node with a list of VSA nodes that are
        currently offline so that these nodes get excluded from any further reconfiguration or
        upgrades. This prevents a VSA node that is offline from being included in deployments.</p>
      <p><b>&lt;DETAILED INFORMATION IS REQUIRED></b></p>
      <p>The format of servers.yml file would be <codeph>!&lt;VSA node-name>*</codeph></p>
      <p> where VSA node-name matched the interface used to access this node during deployment. For
        example<codeblock>!padawan-ccp-vsa001* (VSA host as given in hosts/verb_hosts)</codeblock></p>
      <p>When performing Helion lifecycle management  deployments specify the name of this file in a
        --limit option to prevent the deployment process trying to access the VSA nodes that are
        offline.</p>
      <p>Run the configuration
        processor<codeblock>cd /home/stack/helion/hos/ansible;
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></p>
      <p>Execute the following command
        <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock></p>
      <p>For example: Adding  "offline-vsa" to the VSA host name
        <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml --limit @offline-vsa</codeblock></p>
      <p>Run the following
        playbook<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml -e elasticsearch_cluster_name=hlm-001 --limit @offline-vsa</codeblock></p>
    </section>
    <?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?>
    <section>
      <title><?oxy_custom_end?><b>Remove VSA storage system from cloud </b></title>
      <p>You can remove the VSA storage system from the cloud after it is removed from cluster
        management group in CMC. This is done, if you want to remove VSA permanently.</p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to remove the same cluster which has been removed from CMC in
        cloud. (<b>How do u remove cluster in CMC?)</b><ol id="ol_mdp_qvk_st">
          <li>Delete or comment out the VSA system information at
              <codeph>/home/stack/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/servers.yml </codeph>.</li>
          <li>Commit your
            configuration<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "Remove OSD node &lt;host-name>"</codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the configuration
            processor:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Use the playbook below to create a deployment directory:
            <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Verify that the node is removed from <codeph>hosts/verb_hosts</codeph> file.
              (<b>command to verify?)</b></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
