<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1631c2usc">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Alpha: Creating a Stack</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p><!--UNDER REVISION--><!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Object_Storage/1.1commercial.dashboard.container.edit.md--><!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/container/edit/--></p>
    <p>You can create a stack (or service) using the web administration interface, or you can use
      the command-line interface.</p>
    <p>Make sure that you have a template for the stack.</p>
    <p>Depending on the template, you may need to collect some parameters in advance. For details,
      see the documentation for the specific template, or refer to the Parameters section of the
      template.</p>
    <ol id="ol_fsm_24t_jt">
      <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160c2udl">Launch the HPE Helion
          OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
      <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
          appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
      <li>Click the <b>Project</b> dashboard, then the <b>Orchestrstion</b> panel, then the
          <b>Stacks</b> tab. <p>The Stacks list appears.</p></li>
      <li>Click <b>Launch Stack</b>.</li>
      <li>In the <b>Select Template</b> screen, specify a template from the<b>Template Source</b>
          list.<ul id="ul_gsm_24t_jt">
          <li><b>File</b> - Browse to a locally stored template files.</li>
          <li><b>Direct Input</b> - Enter text to define the template.</li>
          <li><b>URL</b> - Enter an IP address to a template file content.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Specify an environment file in the <b>Environment Source</b> list.<ul id="ul_hsm_24t_jt">
          <li><b>File</b> - Browse to a locally stored environment files (YML format).</li>
          <li><b>Direct Input</b> - Enter text to define the environment.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Click <b>Next</b>.</li>
      <li>In the <b>Launch Stack</b> complete the fields.<p><b>Note:</b> The form is created
          dynamically based on the Parameters section of the template, and varies depending on the
          template.</p></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
