---
layout: 1.0default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0: Command Line Interface- EON"
permalink: /helion/openstack/undercloud/eon/cli/
product: commercial.ga1.0

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/services/compute/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/services/overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/services/imaging/overview/"> NEXT &#9654</a> </p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0: Command Line Interface- EON 
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/eon/cli/)


The EON client CLI package provides an http-client coupled command-line tool for managing Eon (ESX management) services.
 

You can issue the following command using the EON client CLI package in the undercloud:


* [Help Commands](#help)
* [API Command](#api-command)
* [vCenter Commands](#vcenter-commands)
* [Cluster Commands](#cluster-commands)
* [Compute Proxy Commands](#proxy-command)
* [Required Commands](#required-arguments)

 
##Help Commands<a name="help"></a>

###Help

You can display help for this program or one of its sub-programs.

   	`eon --help `


###Help Subcommand

You get two sets of arguments: Positional (mandatory) and Optional arguments (all mandatory fields are marked within *[Required]*).

   ` eon help <sub-command> `


You can use the following commands to view the help.


##API Command<a name="api-command"></a>

### Bash-completion<a name="bash-completion"></a>

Prints all of the commands and options to the standard output.

	# eon bash-completion


##vCenter Commands<a name="vcenter-commands"></a>

###List vCenters<a name="list-vcenters"></a>

You can view the list of vCenters in your cloud environment. 


  	 # eon vcenter-list 


###View vCenter details<a name="view-vcenter-details"></a>

You can view the details of the specific vCenter. 

	# eon vcenter-show <VCENTER_ID>


### Add vCenter<a name="add-vcenter"></a>

You can add the vCenter to the EON database. You must enter all the arguments to add the vCenter; otherwise you will be prompted to enter them. 

	# eon vcenter-add --name <VCENTER_NAME> --ip-address <VCENTER_IP> --username <VCENTER_USERNAME> --password <VCENTER_PASSWORD> --port <VCENTER_PORT> --proxy-config-file <VCENTER_PROXY_CONFIG_FILE>


**Note**: HP Helion OpenStack&#174; supports three vCenters.

 * &lt;VCENTER_NAME>: Name of the vCenter 
                        
 * &lt;VCENTER_IP>: IP address of the vCenter.
                         
 * &lt;VCENTER_USERNAME>: Username of the vCenter administrator. 
                       
 *  &lt;VCENTER_PASSWORD>: Password of the vCenter administrator.

 *  &lt;VCENTER_PORT>: Port of the vCenter. 

 * &lt;VCENTER&#095;PROXY&#095;CONFIG&#095;FILE>:  File location of the proxy configuration.


### Update vCenter<a name="update-vcenter"></a>

You can update the exisitng vCenter to the EON database. You must enter all the arguments to add the vCenter; otherwise you will be prompted to enter them. 


	# eon vcenter-update [--name <VCENTER_NAME>] [--ip-address <VCENTER_IP>][--username <VCENTER_USERNAME>][--password <VCENTER_PASSWORD>][--port <VCENTER_PORT>]                       <VCENTER_ID>


### Delete vCenter<a name="delete-vcenter"></a>

**Important:** If you have any imported cluster ensure that you have deactivated them and then un-import the cluster(s) before executing the delete command.

vCenter delete fails:

* if you have any imported clusters that are activate clusters.

You can delete the vCenter from the EON database.  

	# eon vcenter-delete <VCENTER_ID>


###List vswitch<a name="vswitch-list"></a>        
You can view the list of vswitches of vCenter.

    # eon vswitch-list <VCENTER_ID>


###View vswitch details<a name="vswitch-show"></a>        

You can view the vswitch details. The ID of vCenter and MOID of vswitch will be displayed.

	 # eon vswitch-show --vswitch-moid <VSWITCH_MOID> <VCENTER_ID>


### Host details<a name="host-details"></a>

You can view the list of hosts of cluster details of the host when cluster `moid` is specified.

	 # eon host-list --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> [--clusters <CLUSTER_MOIDS> [<CLUSTER_MOIDS> ...]]

##Cluster Commands<a name="cluster-command"></a>

###List clusters<a name="list-clusters"></a>

You can view the list of clusters available for the given vCenter. 

	# eon cluster-list --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID>


###View cluster details<a name="view-cluster-details"></a>

You can view of the details of the specific cluster. 

	 # eon cluster-show --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --cluster-moid <CLUSTER_MOID>


###Import clusters<a name="import-cluster"></a>

You can import the clusters in the EON database under the give vCenter. 

	# eon import-cluster --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --cluster-name <CLUSTER_NAME> --cluster-moid <CLUSTER_MOID>

In the vCenter you can import the cluster(s). One vCenter can have multiple clusters.

###Update a cluster<a name="cluster-update"></a>
You can update the cluster details. 

	# eon cluster-update --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --cluster-moid <CLUSTER_MOID> --state <STATE>


###Unimport clusters<a name="unimport-clusters"></a>

You can un-import the cluster(s) from the EON database under the give vCenter. 

	# eon unimport-cluster --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --cluster-moid <CLUSTER_MOID>


###Activate clusters<a name="activate-clusters"></a>
You can activate the clusters using the following:

	# eon activate-clusters --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --clusters <CLUSTER_MOIDS> [<CLUSTER_MOIDS> ...]


### Deactivate clusters<a name="deactivate-clusters"></a>
You can deactivate clusters.   

 	# eon deactivate-clusters --vcenter-id <VCENTER_ID> --clusters <CLUSTER_MOIDS> [<CLUSTER_MOIDS> ...]

            

##Compute Proxy Commands<a name="proxy-command"></a>

###List of compute proxy<a name="compute-proxy-list"></a>  

View the list of compute proxies.

	# eon compute-proxy-list


### Restore proxy<a name="restore-proxy"></a>       

In case of failure of Proxy-VM, the Compute Proxy VM can be restored to the previous configuration using the following command. In other words, it recreates the Compute Proxy virtual machine with previously activated clusters.


	# eon restore-proxy <VCENTER_ID>


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>



##Required Commands {#required-arguments}

The following options must be supplied as arguments or as environment variables.

###OS username<a name="os-username"></a>
Username of the keystone (OpenStack environment). Defaults to env[OS_USERNAME].
  
	# --os-username OS_USERNAME
                        
 
###OS password<a name="os-password"></a> 
Password of the keystone (OpenStack environment).  Defaults to env[OS_PASSWORD].
	
	# --os-password OS_PASSWORD
                       
 
###OS tenant ID<a name="os-tenant-id"></a>
Tenant identification of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS&#095;TENANT&#095;ID].

	# --os-tenant-id OS_TENANT_ID
                                           
 
###OS authentication URL<a name="os-auth-url"></a>
Authentication URL of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS&#095;AUTH&#095;URL].
 
	# --os-auth-url OS_AUTH_URL

###OS authenticationtoken<a name="os-auth-token"></a>
Authentication token of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS&#095;AUTH&#095;TOKEN].

  	# --os-auth-token OS_AUTH_TOKEN



<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
