---
layout: default
title: "Undercloud Dashboard: Settings Tab"
permalink: /helion/openstack/undercloud/admin/settings/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->



<script> 

function PageRefresh { 
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

 

#  HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Undercloud Horizon Dashboard: Settings Tab
[See version 1.1 of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/admin/settings/)

The options on the Settings tab allow changes to the following:

* [User Settings](#user-settings)
* [Change Password](#change-password) 

To view the **Settings** tab, click the **Admin** icon in the top panel of the Horizon undercloud dashboard and select **Settings**. The tab appears in the left panel on the dashboard.

## User settings<a name="user-settings"></a>

This option allows you to change the user settings. To change the settings, do the following:

1. From the top panel, click **Admin** and then select **Settings**.<br> The Settings Tab is displayed in the left panel with two options **User Settings** and **Change Password**.<br>The default is User Settings.

2. In the User Settings page, from the **Language** drop-down list, select the desired language.<br> The default is English. </br>

3. From the **Timezone** drop-down list, select the time zone. <br> The default is UTC (Universal Coordinated Time). </br>

4. From **Items per Page** drop-down list, select the number of lines that you want to display per page.<br> The default is 20 lines per page.</br>

5. Click **Save** to save the changes. 

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

## Change Password<a name="change-password"></a>

This option allows you to the change the password. Do the following:

1. From the top panel, click **Admin** and then select **Settings**.<br> The Settings Tab is displayed in the left panel with two options **User Settings** and **Change Password**.

2. Click **Change Password** to display the Change Password page.

3. In the **Current Password** box, enter your current password.

4. In the **New Password** box, enter the new password.

5. In the **Confirm Password** box, re-enter your new password to confirm.

6. Click **Change** to save the changes.  


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
