---
layout: 1.0default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0: Monitor Node Replication Status using Icinga"
permalink: /helion/openstack/services/object/swift/replica-status/
product: commercial.ga1.0
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.0
product-version3: HP Helion OpenStack 1.0.1
product-version4: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Keshava HP, Binamra S

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/services/object/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/services/overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href=" /helion/openstack/services/swift/deployment/"> NEXT &#9654</a> </p>-->


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0: Monitor Node Replication Status using Icinga
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/object/swift/replica-status/)

Cloud admins can use the ***icinga*** service running in the undercloud to monitor the replication status of nodes within the Object Storage (Swift) deployment. 

##Prerequisites

* HP Helion OpenStack&#174; cloud is successfully deployed.<br />*(Starter Object Storage (Swift) nodes are functional by default as they are part of cloud deployment.)*
* The Icinga service is active and running in the undercloud.


##Monitoring Object Storage (Swift) Replication Status
Perform the following steps to monitor the replication status:

1. In the undercloud, log in to the **Icinga Dashboard** (http://&lt;<i>undercloud_IP</i>&gt;/icinga/). The default login credentials are as follows:
	* Username: *icingaadmin*
	* Password: *icingaadmin* 

2. Click **Status** on the left panel and then click <a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/icinga_host-details.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b><i>Host Detail</b></i></a>.

3. In the **Host** column,  <a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/swift_icinga_view-details.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b>click the icon</b></a>  next to the host IP when the tooltip displays as "View Service Details For This Host". 
<br /> The page navigates to  Service Status Details For Host &lt;Swift node IP address &gt; and displays the <a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/swift_icinga-replication-status.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b>replication status</b></a> of the selected Swift node.

<!--
3. In the **Host** column, click the icon next to the host IP to see <a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/swift_icinga_view-details.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b><i>Host Status Details For All Hosts</i></b></a>.


4. Click the target Swift node IP address to open the <a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/swift_icinga-replication-status.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b><i>Service Status Details For Host IP Address</i></b> (opens in a new window)</a> to see the replication status of the selected Swift node. -->

##Status Messages

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
	<th>Status</th>
	<th><center>Message</center></th>
    <th><center>Cause/Resolution</center></th>
</tr>
<tr style="background-color: white; color: black;">
	<td>OK</td>
	<td>Ok</td>
    <td></td>
</tr>
<tr style="background-color: white; color: black;">
	<td>WARNING </td>
	<td>Replication not progressing</td>
    <td>An account, container or object replicator process has not finished a complete scan  within the defined threshold  (Default set to 24 hours (86400 seconds) for HP Helion OpenStack 1.0). Examine the account-replicator, container-replicator and object-replicator logs to see which process is "stuck". Usually, restarting the relevant process resolves the issue.</td>
</tr>
</tr>
<tr style="background-color: white; color: black;">
	<td>FAIL </td>
	<td>Replication never completed</td>
    <td> The named replication process has never run on this node. Check that the replicator has been configured and started. Examine the log files to see if the replicator process has reported problems.</td>
</tr>
<tr style="background-color: white; color: black;">
	<td>UNKNOWN</td>
	<td>Not Applicable</td>
    <td>N/A</td></tr> 
</table>

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
