---
layout: 1.0default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.01 Release Notes"
permalink: /helion/openstack/release-notes/101/ 
product: commercial.ga1.0

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>
<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.0">&#9664; PREV | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.0">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/faq/">NEXT &#9654; </a></p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.01 Release Notes
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/release-notes/11/)

Thank you for your interest in HP Helion OpenStack. This document provides an overview of the features contained within HP Helion OpenStack version 1.01, including known issues and workarounds, and where to find further information on the product release:

* [Features in HP Helion OpenStack](#features) 
* [Known Issues in this Release](#known-issues)
* [For Further Information](#For-Further-Information) 

## Features in HP Helion OpenStack ## {#features}

The following features have been added to HP Helion OpenStack, by release.

### Features in HP Helion OpenStack 1.01 ###

**Defect fixes** - A number of defects were addressed and fixed in this release.

**Security documentation** - A new document is included in this release that contains recommendations for securing your HP Helion OpenStack network. [Configuring your network securely](/helion/openstack/install/security/) details the firewall rules you can apply at the edge of the HP Helion OpenStack deployment to protect against external abuse and defines router rules within the HP Helion OpenStack deployment to protect against insider abuse or administrative errors.

**HP Helion OpenStack Flexible Control Plane** The [HP Helion OpenStack Flexible Control Plane](/helion/openstack/flexiblecontrol/overview/) introduces the capacity to deploy the control plane in a virtual environment in addition to the current baremetal physical deployment. This new configuration reduces the control plane footprint to just three servers from the current seven to ten servers.

### Features in HP Helion OpenStack 1.0 ### 

**OpenStack Services** - The full set of standard [OpenStack services](/helion/openstack/services/overview/#OpenStack) is in HP Helion OpenStack: Nova (Compute), Swift (Object Operations), Cinder (Volume Operations), Neutron (Networking Operations), Glance (Image Operations), Keystone (Identity Management), Horizon (Helion dashboard), Heat (Orchestration), TripleO, and Ironic.

**Note:** In Helion 1.0, the Compute service is configured to provide only a subset of measurements listed at http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ceilometer/measurements.html#compute-nova for which the origin is listed as notification. This includes: 

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;"><th>Name</th><th>Type</th><th>Unit</th><th>Resource</th><th>Note</th></tr>
<tr><td>instance</td><td>g</td><td>instance</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Existence of instance</td></tr>
<tr><td>instance:<type></td><td>g</td><td>instance</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Existence of instance <type> (openstack types)</td></tr>
<tr><td>memory</td><td>g</td><td>MB</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Volume of RAM allocated in MB</td></tr>
<tr><td>vcpus</td><td>g</td><td>vcpu</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Number of VCPUs</td></tr>
<tr><td>disk.root.size</td><td>g</td><td>GB</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Size of root disk in GB</td></tr>
<tr><td>disk.ephemeral.size</td><td>g</td><td>GB</td><td>inst ID</td><td>Size of ephemeral disk in GB</td></tr>
</table>

**Other Services** [Other services](/helion/openstack/services/overview/#OpenStack/#Other) included in the release include: Sherpa, Sirius, EON, DNSaaS, and DVR. 

**LogStash/ElasticSearch** - This service provides enhanced security and supportability of the cloud by offering centralized logging.

**Icinga** - This service provides infrastructure monitoring ensuring the health of the cloud. 

**HP StoreVirtual VSA** -  [HP StoreVirtual VSA](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/products/storage-software/product-detail.html?oid=5306917) is storage virtualization software used as the default fault-tolerant, software-defined storage backend for the Volume Operations service, and provides easy deployment on KVM nodes meeting on-demand scale-out requirements of cloud storage without sacrificing performance.

**Support for VMWare ESX** - VMWare ESX is a baremetal hypervisor. HP Helion OpenStack makes ESX host onboarding and management easier and lets you setup the ESX proxy node during installation of the overcloud. 

**HP Virtual Cloud Networking (VCN) Application** - Enables you to create networks, subnets and ports, as well as security groups and security group rules for your ESX clusters using OVSvApp.

## Known Issues in this Release ## {#known-issues}

The following are the known issues for HP Helion OpenStack:

**Installation Issues**

When installing HP Helion OpenStack you might experience the following issues:

* If a set of baremetal servers differ in specifications (such as memory or disk capacity), the installation fails. Specify the server with the lowest specs as the second entry in the `baremetal.csv` file. <!-- (CORE-1409) -->


**Operational Issues**

When using HP Helion OpenStack you might experience the following issues:

* A snapshot of an instance that was launched from a bootable volume might not boot. In addition, the Glance CLI and Horizon Dashboard might not report the snapshot properly. The snapshot will be listed as an image (not a snapshot) with a size of 0 and a blank disk format.

	Even though with Horizon and CLI report the snapshot incorrectly,  the snapshot launches properly. <!-- (GLAN-1706) -->

* If you use the Updates and Extensions tab of the Helion Dashboard for the overcloud (known as the *Sherpa UI*) to download two images that use the same name in two different projects, the second image will fail to upload to the Image Operations service (Glance). Avoid using images that use the same name. <!-- (C O D N-24) -->

* If you determine that your VM seed has not started correctly when you execute the `hp_ced_start_seed` script, run the script a second time to ensure you start the seed.

* If, for some reason, the overcloud compute service is rebooted, the VMs might be in an ERROR state. Execute the following commands to restart the services and remove the error(s):
  
		$ sudo service nova-compute restart
		$ sudo service nova-scheduler restart
		$ sudo service nova-conductor restart
		$ sudo service neutron-openvswitch-agent restart

* In some instances, the centralized logging feature does not function after the  product installation. If this occurs, perform the following steps on the overcloud controller and all compute nodes:

        service rsyslog restart
        

**Helion Dashboard**

When using HP Helion OpenStack you might experience the following issues:

* On the **Floating IPs** tab in the Helion Dashboard (**Project > Access & Security > Floating IPs**) all of the buttons (Associate, Disassociate, Release Floating IP) might not appear under certain circumstances. To make the buttons appear, first attempt to allocate a new floating IP. If the buttons are still not present, log out and log in as the same user. 

	To potentially avoid this issue, when creating users and projects, .  first create the project, then create user(s), and add those users to the project (rather than creating the user first, then creating a project).<!--(HORI-3110) -->

* Volume backups that are created in one project are accessible to all projects. In other projects, the information displayed might not be correct. Volume backups should not appear in other projects. There is no workaround. <!-- (HORI-3009) -->

* Changing the user settings in a non-admin role affects all users across all projects. Changes to a user role should not affect other roles. There is no workaround. <!-- (HORI-2934) -->

* An admin is unable to retrieve object details in an Object Store. The admin might see a blank dialog box or receive the *Error: Unable to retrieve details.* error. Access object details as a non-admin user. <!-- (HORI-2930) -->

* An admin user will receive an error message *Error: Unable to retrieve user list.* while trying to access **Users** from the **Identity Panel**.  To wirk with users, an admin should use the CLI tools rather than the Horizon console. <!-- DOCS-723 --> 

* An admin user in default domain is not able to edit Projects. <!--DOCS-727, DOCS-731 --> 



**Other Issues**

Other issues you might experience when using HP Helion OpenStack:

* If a project and user has been deleted, there is no way in the Helion Dashboard delete the networks associated with the project and user. To clean up artifacts created by a user account that has been deleted, use the CLI tools rather than the Horizon console. <!--(DOCS-733) -->


* When you resize an instance of Nova, it produces an error <!--(NOV-6664) -->. 
* After updating the undercloud to HP Helion OpenStack 1.01, existing HP StoreVirtual clusters might not work. The cluster is listed in the Helion Dashboard, but you might not be able to activate or unregister the cluster. If this occurs, you can [manually register a new cluster](/helion/openstack/undercloud/storage/storevirtual/#register-cluster) with the same name and information as the non-working cluster. You should be able to activate the cluster. <!-- (ANSUPDATE-155) -->

* A Kernel Panic error occurs when a user employs SSH to log in to a virtual machine and attempts to connect to an IP address external to HP Helion OpenStack. <!-- (EE-21) -->

* When a controller node crashes, it must be rebooted to return to its operational state. <!-- (CORE-1387) -->

* The Helion Core installation process leaves behind a shared private network defined. <!-- (CORE-586) -->

* When a virtual IP address (VIP) is moved to a new controller, the OpenStack services stop responding to any CLI commands. The system will recover after several minutes. <!-- (CORE-1716) -->

* The Compute service does not handle or recover from RabbitMQ Server process failure. <!-- (CORE-1559) -->

* The keepalived processes do not restart automatically when they are killed. Use the service `keepalived start` to restart keepalived. <!-- (CORE-972) -->

* The HAProxy does not automatically restart when it is killed. Restart haproxy manually using `service haproxy restart`. <!-- (CORE-943) -->

* A user can register but cannot update a vCenter through the UI. 


##For Further Information## {#For-Further-Information}

For additional information about HP Helion OpenStack, OpenStack Cloud Software, and the HP Helion Support Center:

* [HP Helion OpenStack Documentation web site](/helion/openstack/): Provides information on topics such as installation and configuration, FAQs, and applications for all of the HP Helion OpenStack product offerings.
* [OpenStack web site](http://www.openstack.org/): Provides information on computing, networking, and storage in OpenStack, various programs such as TripleO, and the OpenStack community.
* [HP Support Center](http://us-support.external.hp.com/portal/site/hpsc/public): Provides a way to report issues with HP Helion OpenStack.


###Legal Notices and Disclaimer### {#legal-notices-disclaimer}

<!--See the [HP Helion OpenStack Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements](/helion/openstack/commercial-3rd-party-license-agreements/).-->

Linux&#174; is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries.


**HP Helion OpenStack Warranty**: 
The programs included with the Debian Host Linux system are free software. The exact license terms for each program are described in the individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright. Debian Host Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by applicable law.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
####OpenStack Trademark Attribution
