---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Edition: Manage Storage"
permalink: /helion/openstack/undercloud/storage/storevirtual/
product: commercial.ga1.0


---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!---
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/install-beta/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/install-beta-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/install-beta/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p>-->


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0: Working with HP StoreVirtual VSA 
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/storage/storevirtual/)

The StoreVirtual option allows you to configure HP StoreVirtual VSA cluster as storage.You can configure your StoreVirtual by either using the Horizon undercloud dashboard(*Recommended*) or [Sirius client](/helion/openstack/sirius/cli/workflow/). 

This page describes the different tasks that you can perform using the StoreVirtual option in the Horizon undercloud dashboard.


* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin)

* [Register a StoreVirtual cluster](#register-cluster)

* [Edit a StoreVirtual cluster](#edit-cluster)
	
* [Unregister a StoreVirtual cluster](#unregister-cluster) 
    
* [Unregister multiple StoreVirtual clusters](#unregister-multiple-clusters) 

* [View Configuration](#view-configuration)

* [Next Steps](#next-steps)


<!---Configuration of HP StoreServ/3PAR as Cinder back end using Sirius service involves the following steps:-->


## Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

Before you start working with StoreVirtual, ensure that the following prerequisites have been fulfilled:

1. HP Helion Cloud is deployed

2. HP StoreVirtual VSA cluster is created and is accessible by Cinder


## Register a StoreVirtual cluster {#register-cluster}
	
Use the Horizon undercloud dashboard to register a cluster. When you register a cluster, it registers the cluster to the cloud inventory. The registered cluster can later be added as a back end to the overcloud Cinder.

<!---You can register a cluster by either using the Horizon undercloud dashboard or Sirius client. (Refer [User manual for Sirius client](/helion/openstack/sirius-cli/)).-->

To register the cluster using the Horizon undercloud dashboard, do the following:

1. Log in to the Horizon undercloud dashboard.

2. From the left panel, click the **Resources** tab and then **Storage** to display the Overview page.

3. Select the **StoreVirtual** option to activate it.<br /> The HP StoreVirtual  VSA page is displayed.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-register.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">HP StoreVirtual VSA Page (opens in a new window)</a>

4. Click **Register Cluster** in the top-right corner of the page to display the Register Cluster dialog box.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-register-page.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Register Cluster Dialog Box (opens in a new window)</a>

5. In the dialog box, do the following:

    * In the **Cluster Name** box, enter the StoreVirtual cluster name.

		**Note**: The cluster name is case sensitive
   
    * In the **IP Address** box, enter the virtual IP address of the cluster.
   
    * In the **Subnet** box, enter the subnet of the StoreVirtual cluster.
   
    * In the **Username** box, enter the user name to access the cluster.
   
    * In the **Password** box, enter the password to access the cluster.
   
 	 <!--- * In the **Port** box, enter the port number for the SSH access or select the default value. The Port by default is *16022*.-->
6. Click **Done** to save the details. 

    On successful registration, the cluster is added and is listed as *Registered*.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-registered-cluster.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Registered Cluster Displays in the HP StoreVirtual VSA Page (opens in a new window)</a>

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

## Edit a StoreVirtual cluster {#edit-cluster}

**Note**: Ensure that you edit the StoreVirtual cluster only if there are any updates made through the CMC for the selected cluster. After editing the details, the backend data should also be updated so that the Cinder configuration file has the updated cluster information.

To edit a cluster, do the following:

1. Log in to the Horizon undercloud dashboard.

2. From the left panel, click the **Resources** tab and then **Storage** to display the Overview page.

3. Select the **StoreVirtual** option to activate it.<br /> The HP StoreVirtual  VSA page is displayed.<br />

4. Click **Edit Cluster** to display the Edit StoreVirtual Cluster dialog box.
 
 	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-edit-cluster.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Edit Cluster Dialog Box (opens in a new window)</a>

5. Make the required changes.

6. Click **Done** to save the changes.   


## Unregister a StoreVirtual cluster {#unregister-cluster}

Unregistering a cluster will remove it from the cloud inventory.

**Note**: When you unregister a cluster,the volumes from this cluster backend will no longer be available through Cinder. Ensure that you detach all relevant volumes and remove the backend associated with the cluster before unregistering. After unregistering the cluster, the backend data should also be updated so that the Cinder configuration file has the updated cluster information. 


To unregister a cluster, do the following:

1. Log in to the Horizon undercloud dashboard.

2. From the left panel, click the **Resources** tab and then **Storage** to display the Overview page.

3. Select the **StoreVirtual** option to activate it.<br /> The HP StoreVirtual  VSA page is displayed.<br />

4. Click the **More** drop-down list next to the cluster you want to unregister and select **Unregister Cluster**.<br /> A confirmation box is displayed.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-more-options.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">More Option (opens in a new window)</a>

5. Click **Unregister cluster** to unregister or click **Cancel** to cancel the process. 

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

## Unregister multiple clusters {#unregister-multiple-clusters}

**Note**: After unregistering the cluster, the backend data should also be updated so that the Cinder configuration file has the updated cluster information.

Use this option to unregister multiple clusters using a single command.

1. Log in to the Horizon undercloud dashboard.

2. From the left panel, click the **Resources** tab and then **Storage** to display the Overview page.

3. Select the **StoreVirtual** option to activate it.<br /> The HP StoreVirtual VSA page is displayed.<br />

4. Click the checkbox next to the **Name** column to select all the clusters. 

5. Click **Unregister Clusters** to unregister the clusters.<br />A confirmation box is displayed.<br />

5. Click **Unregister Cluster** to unregister or click **Cancel** to cancel the process. 

 
## View configuration {#view-configuration}

Use this option to view the cluster configuration (as defined in the HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Configuration Manual for HP LeftHand/StoreVirtual Block Storage Volume Driver).

1. Log in to the Horizon undercloud dashboard.

2. From the left panel, click the **Resources** tab and then **Storage** to display the Overview page.

3. Select the **StoreVirtual** option to activate it.<br /> The HP StoreVirtual VSA page is displayed.<br />

4. Click the **More** drop-down list for the cluster whose configuration you want to view.

5. Click **View Configuration**.<br /> The StoreVirtual Cluster Cinder configuration is displayed in a dialog box.<br /> 


## Next Steps {#next-steps}

[Working with StoreVirtual Backends](/helion/openstack/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/)

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
