---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Focus Service Overview"
permalink: /helion/openstack/services/focus/overview/
product: commercial.ga1.0

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.0 Focus Service Overview #
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.1 version of this page](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/focus/overview/)

<!-- modeled after HP Cloud Networking Getting Started (network.getting.started.md); text from docs.hpcloud.com/helion/openstack/prepare/overview/ -->

The HP Helion OpenStack Focus service serves as the Topology Design Registry and Repository Service. Focus provides for persistent store and management of TOSCA-based templates. Focus allows you to:

Focus allows you to:

- Search for documents based on criteria
- Store new documents
- Retrieve a version of an existing document
- Update the contents and/or metadata of a document
- Delete a document or a specific document version


###Using the Administration Dashboard### {#dashboard}

You can use the [HP Helion OpenStack Dashboard](/helion/openstack/dashboard/how-works/) to work with the Focus service.


###Using the API to access Focus### {#API}
 
You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to HP Helion OpenStack Focus service. See .

###Using the CLI### {#cli}

You can use any of several command-line interface software to access HP Helion OpenStack Focus service. See .


## For more information ##

For information on how to operate your cloud we suggest you read the [OpenStack Operations Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/ops/) The *Architecture* section contains useful information about how an OpenStack Cloud is put together. However, the HP Helion OpenStack edition takes care of these details for you. The *Operations* contains information on how to manage the system.

<!-- hide me Also see the Help topics that are available in the Operational Dashboard and Administration Dashboard.  Website copies are available:

* [HP Helion OpenStack Operational Dashboard Help](/helion/openstack/manage/operational-dashboard/)
* [HP Helion OpenStack Administration Dashboard Help](/helion/openstack/manage/administration-dashboard/) -->


 <a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
