---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1.1: Monitoring with HP ArcSight"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1.1/services/logging/ArchSight/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1.1

role3: Security Engineer
authors: 

---
<!--UNDER REVISION--> 


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>
<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->


#HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1.1: Security Threat Monitoring with HP ArcSight



HP Helion OpenStack, through its centralized logging infrastructure (Logstash,) can be configured to send events and logs to an HP ArcSight endpoint (connector, ESM, or logger). The HP ArcSight connector can, in turn, be configured to receive logs and events in real time from this Logstash configuration inside an HP Helion OpenStack environment, further converting it to an Common Event Format (CEF) and forwarding it to a designated HP ArcSight endpoint using an encrypted transport protocol.

Integration with HP ArcSight provides the ability to monitor, analyze, and correlate HP Helion OpenStack logs through HP ArcSight Logger and ESM. It supports supports continuous security monitoring of the entire HP Helion OpenStack infrastructure including:

- HP Helion OpenStack infrastructure
- HP Helion OpenStack services
- Guest operating system


##Integration Architecture##

A fundamental prerequisite for this integration is to deploy HP Helion OpenStack, HP ArcSight ESM, and /or Logger on an accessible network. The integration architecture builds upon the existing HP Helion OpenStack central logging architecture, which is based on Logstash.

The core of this integration architecture consists of the following elements:

- Logstash Service: The main component of the HP Helion OpenStack centralized logging solution is the Logstash Service, which is the endpoint to which logs are shipped from various log sources (network devices, servers, etc). The Logstash Service is configured to forward all or a subset of logs to an HP ArcSight SmartConnector using UDP over port 514.

- HP ArcSight Connector: This is the main plugin that integrates HP Helion OpenStack and an HP ArcSight endpoint. In the form of a Smart Connector, it receives logs from the Logstash Service (syslog and Snare formats), converts them into Comment Event Format (CEF), and  forwards them on in an encrypted HP ArcSight transport protocol to the designated HP ArcSight endpoint.

- Your HP ArcSight Environment: Your existing HP ArcSight implementation into which cloud logs/events will be shipped for  monitoring/analysis/storage. This may include HP ArcSight Connectors, Loggers, and ESM components, along with supporting network and storage infrastructure. Generally, this is an "HP ArcSight endpoint", and may be located in your environment, or with the designated service provider in the case of managed security service provider (MSSP) implementations.

##Integrating HP Helion OpenStack with HP ArcSight

Before you begin, be sure that:

- HP Helion OpenStack is deployed and accessible on the network.
- HP ArcSight ESM and/or Logger are deployed and accessible on the network.

Then, perform these steps:

1. Download the following files from [https://protect724.hp.com](https://protect724.hp.com):

	- Logstash Configuration File: `helion-os_to_arcsight.conf`
	- HP ArcSight FlexConnector File: `openstack.subagent.sdkrfilereader.properties`

2. Install an HP ArcSight Syslog SmartConnector and configure it to listen on UDP port 514 (default port). Note that the Connector can be installed either on a host running inside the tenant’s cloud environment or as an on-premises host running outside the Tenant’s cloud environment. Running inside the cloud is more secure and requires less bandwidth. It is recommended that you deploy the connectors close to the data source.

3. Copy the FlexConnector file `openstack.subagent.sdkrfilereader.properties` to `../current/user/agent/flexagent/syslog/ `and start the HP ArcSight SmartConnector service. 

	**Tip** Write down the IP address of the host where you installed the HP ArcSight Syslog SmartConnector; you will need this information in the next step.

4. Open the Logstash configuration file `helion-os_to_arcsight.conf` with a text editor and set the `host =>` parameter to the IP address of the HP ArcSight Syslog SmartConnector. Save and close the file.
Example: If the IP address of the HP ArcSight Syslog SmartConnector is 10.1.1.20, you will set
   ` host => "10.1.1.20"`
5. Upload the Logstash configuration file `helion-os_to_arcsight.conf` to the Undercloud Host within Helion OpenStack. As root (or sudo) copy the file to the Logstash configuration directory under `/etc/logstash/conf.d/`.
6. As root (or sudo) execute the following Logstash command to validate the configuration file (this step is optional, but recommended):

		/opt/logstash java -jar logstash.jar agent --configtest --config /etc/logstash/conf.d/helion-os_to_arcsight.conf

7. As root (or sudo) execute the following command to restart the LogStash service:
 
		service logstash restart
8. Log on to HP ArcSight ESM or Logger and search for events where Device Product = OpenStack to verify that the integration has successfully completed.

##Validating the HP ArcSight Integration


After completing the HP Helion OpenStack and HP ArcSight integration steps outlined above, you may validate that HP ArcSight is monitoring HP Helion OpenStack by following the steps below.



1. Log on to the overcloud Horizon dashboard or the CLI of the overcloud controller and perform a few failed logo-ns. Log on to HP ArcSight to view the failed logon events generated by Keystone. Create a rule in ESM (or alert in Logger) to automatically send a notification when there are five or more failed log-ons within 1 minute, indicating a Brute Force Attack on HP Helion OpenStack (via Horizon or the CLI).

2. Log on to the overcloud Horizon  dashboard or the CLI of the overcloud controller and create a Small Instance (Virtual Machine). After the Instance has been running for a few minutes, delete the Instance. Logon to HP ArcSight to view the Instance creation and deletion events generated by Nova (who, what, where, and when). Create a report to display the configuration changes made to HP Helion OpenStack instances over the last 24 hours.

3. Log on to the overcloud Horizon dashboard (or use the CLI) of the overcloud controller and create a 1GB volume. After the volume has been created, delete the volume. Log on to HP ArcSight to view the volume creation and deletion events generated by Cinder (who, what, where, and when) and verify that these values are as expected.




<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----