---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Mapping Backend to Volume Type"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/map/volumetype/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: Cloud Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Network Administrator 
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
role8: Network Engineer 
authors: Michael B

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!---
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Mapping Backend to Volume Type
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/helion/openstack/map/volumetype/)

You can use the newly added Cinder backend, create volume type and associate it with this backend using the Horizon Overcloud dashboard or Cinder CLI. The following sections explains how to create Volume Type and map to a given backend for Cinder using Overcloud Horizon dashboard.


The page covers the following tasks:
 
* [Before you begin](#before-you-begin)

* [Create a volume type](#create-volume-type)

* [Associate the volume type to a backend](#associate-the-volume-type)


##Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

Before you start working with volume types, ensure that the following prerequisites have been fulfilled:

1. HP Helion Cloud is deployed

2. The cloud is created and the Cinder service is up and running

## Create Volume type {#create-volume-type}

To create a volume type using Overcloud dashboard, do the following:

1. Login to Overcloud Horizon dashboard.<br /> The Overcloud dashboard displays with the options in the left panel.  

2. From the left panel, click the **Admin** Tab and then click **Volumes** to display the Volumes page. 

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/create-volumetype.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Create Volume Type Option (opens in a new window)</a>

3. Click **Create Volume Type** to display a dialog box.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/create-volumetype1.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Create Volume Type Dialog Box (opens in a new window)</a>

4. Enter the name of the volume type.

5. Click **Create Volume Type**.<br />The newly created volume displays in the Volumes page.

### Extra Specifications Options ###

The following Cinder Volume Type extra-specs options enable control over the VSA storage provisioning type (thin or full) and specify protection:

    hplh:provisioning: thin or full
    hplh:data_pl: r-0 or r-5 or r-10-2 or r-10-3 or r-10-4 or r-6
    
The protection level options enable NetRAID10, NetRAID5, and such beyond NetRAID0. NetRAID0 provides no data protection in the event of a failure.

## Associate the volume type to a backend {#associate-the-volume-type}

To map a volume type to a backend, do the following:

1. Login to Overcloud Horizon dashboard.<br /> The Overcloud dashboard displays with the options in the left panel.

2. From the left panel, click the **Admin** Tab and then click **Volumes** to display the Volumes page. 

3. Click **View Extra Specs** displayed against the volume type which you want to associate to the backend.<br /> Create Volume Type Extra Specs dialog box is displayed.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/view-extra-specs.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">View Extra Specs Option (opens in a new window)</a>

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/volume-extra-specs.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"> Create Volume Type Extra Specs Dialog Box (opens in a new window)</a>

4. In the **Key** box, enter the name of the key of the backend to which you want to associate the volume type. For example:volume&#095;backend_name.

5. In the **Value** box, enter the name of the backend to which you want to associate the volume type.For example:*FC_backend01*.

6. Click **Create** to create the extra volume type specs.


**Note**: Once the volume type are mapped to the backends, the cloud user can create volumes.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----

