---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Service Overview"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/eve/overview/
product: commercial.ga

product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1

role1: Service Developer 
role2: Cloud Administrator 
role3: Application Developer 
authors: Paul F

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174;1.1 Eve Service Overview #

<!-- modeled after HP Cloud Networking Getting Started (network.getting.started.md) -->

As part of that investment HP Software has created an advanced provisioning technology, called Eve, which uses TOSCA standard semantics to express infrastructure templates that can be orchestrated against an OpenStack Nova API.  As part of the Eve advanced provisioning service, hybrid provisioning can be accomplished with common templates across public and private OpenStack API compliant clouds.

The Eve service is the HP Helion OpenStack infrastructure topology provisioning service. Eve allows you to:

- Provision TOSCA-based infrastructure topology designs (composite, hybrid, and distributed).
- Separate topology creation and resource pool binding, for simpler, reusable topologies.
- Integrate via a plug-in model with Cloud API's (e.g., OpenStack Nova) for orchestrating provisioning.
- Create and configure network services such as virtual load-balancers and configuration management services.

Eve also provides a logical execution container for flexible deployment of web-scale, stateless, thread controlled, non-blocking coarse-grained services. 

This additional functionality in Eve allows you to:

- Retrieve the list of provisioning jobs
- Retrieve information about a specific provisioning job

## Key Terms ##

TOSCA: A standard means to describe the topology of applications along with dependent environments, services and artifacts inside a single service template. TOSCA standard enables each customer to deploy and manage topologies against the capabilities offered by any cloud provider, regardless of the customer's infrastructure or service model.

About "jobs" : A job is created when the user submits a desired topology to Eve and requests provisioning based on it. Eve creates the job and publishes status updates for it. Once the provisioning is finished, the job is marked as completed. 


## Working with the Provisioning Service ##

###Using the API to access Eve### {#API}
 
You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to HP Helion OpenStack Eve service. See .

###Using the CLI### {#cli}

You can use any of several command-line interface software to access HP Helion OpenStack Eve service. See .

###Using language bindings### {#bindings}

You can use any of several language bindings to access HP Helion OpenStack Eve service. See .

<!--
## How To's with the HP Helion OpenStack Image Operations Service ## {#howto}

The following lists of tasks can be performed by a user or administrator through the [HP Administration Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/manage/administration-dashboard/), the OpenStack [CLI]() or OpenStack [API]().

###Working with topologies

- Launch a topology
- Terminate a running topology
- Delete a terminated topology
- Delete a running topology

### Maintain existing topologies ###

- Assign Floating IP to Server
- Unassign Floating IP from server
- Pause a Server
- Unpause a Server
- Suspend a Server
- Resume a Server
- Soft/Hard Reboot a Server
- Add Security Group to Server
- Remove Security Group from Server
- Add Server to Server Group
- Remove Server from Server Group
- Add volume group to server group
- Remove volume group from server group-->

## For more information ##

For information on how to operate your cloud we suggest you read the [OpenStack Operations Guide](http://docs.openstack.org/ops/) The *Architecture* section contains useful information about how an OpenStack Cloud is put together. However, the HP Helion OpenStack edition takes care of these details for you. The *Operations* contains information on how to manage the system.

<!-- hide me Also see the Help topics that are available in the Operational Dashboard and Administration Dashboard.  Website copies are available:

* [HP Helion OpenStack Operational Dashboard Help](/helion/openstack/1.1/manage/operational-dashboard/)
* [HP Helion OpenStack Administration Dashboard Help](/helion/openstack/1.1/manage/administration-dashboard/) -->


 <a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
