---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: FAQ"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/faq/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: All
authors: JaymeP

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/release-notes/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/technical-overview/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: FAQ#
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/helion/openstack/faq/)

This page answers many common questions about what HP Helion OpenStack is, how it works, and what it can do for your enterprise.

###About HP Helion OpenStack

* [What is HP Helion OpenStack?](#whatHelion)
* [What is TripleO?](#TripleO)
	* [What is a seed?](#whatisseed)  
	* [What is the undercloud?](#whatisundercloud) 
	* [What is the overcloud?](#whatisovercloud) 
- [Does HP Helion OpenStack work with hybrid or public cloud projects?](#hybridorpubliccloud)

###Specifications
- [What's new in this release?](/helion/openstack/1.1/whatsnew/)
* [How many nodes and virtual machines does it support?](#nodes)  
* [How can I update to the latest version?](#softwareupdate)
* [Does it include an Operating System (OS)?](#includeOS)
* [What OpenStack release does this distribution include?](#releaseversion) 
* [Can HP Helion OpenStack run on non-HP hardware?](#nonhphardware)

###More Information
- [Where can I find more information?](#MoreInfo)
- [Is there an alternative to the full version?](#community)
- [What developer resources are available?](#developer)
- [Where can I report issues with HP OpenStack Helion?](#reportissues)
- [Is this release localized for non-English speaking markets?](#localized) 

##About HP Helion OpenStack

###What is HP Helion OpenStack? {#whatHelion}

HP Helion OpenStack is a commercial-grade distribution of [OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org), the leading open source cloud computing platform. This distribution, backed by HP, enables customers to more easily build, manage, and use open-source based hybrid clouds in a resilient, maintainable platform. 

HP Helion OpenStack enables cost-effective scalability of IT services and increased business agility. Best of all, as part of the HP Helion portfolio, it is backed by a wide range of related cloud products, services, and professional support.

To get a better idea of what's inside the box, explore the individual components and how they work together [under the hood](http://docs.hpcloud.com/content/documentation/commercial/GA1/ServicesFlow/index.html).

###What is TripleO? {#TripleO}

OpenStack-on-OpenStack, or TripleO, is an official  OpenStack project for deployment of OpenStack systems. It builds on the core resource-provisioning strengths of OpenStack technology. It enables you to administer your cloud or deploy and maintain virtual and baremetal installations of OpenStack using the same APIs you are familiar with for deploying workloads on an OpenStack cloud. A template-based deployment engine (using OpenStack Heat) allows for rigorous testing and reliable, repeatable deployments of known configurations.

A TripleO installation includes a [seed](#whatisseed), the [undercloud](#whatisundercloud) and the [overcloud](#whatisovercloud).
 
####What is a seed? {#whatisseed}  

A seed VM is a bootable KVM VM image provided as part of HP Helion OpenStack and is deployed in a VM instance. This instance provisions physical hardware and deploys the undercloud. It also contains the minimum services required for OpenStack to function: Nova, Neutron, Glance, Keystone, Ironic & Heat.

This is the first phase of the HP Helion OpenStack installation.

####What is the undercloud? {#whatisundercloud} 

The undercloud server is a basic single-node OpenStack installation running on a single physical server used to deploy, test, manage, and update the overcloud servers. There is no HA configuration for the undercloud. 

The undercloud contains a strictly limited sub-set of services; just enough to interact with the overcloud. The services running on the undercloud are Nova, Neutron, Glance, Keystone, Ironic, Heat, Horizon & Ceilometer. This server also contains the HP Helion content distribution catalog service, which provides a mechanism for downloading and installing content and updates for the overcloud.

The undercloud also hosts images for various server types which will form the functional cloud environment - the [overcloud](#whatisovercloud). These images are overcloud Controller, overcloud Compute, overcloud Swift & overcloud Compute Proxy (required for clouds that support VMWare ESX as a hypervisor).

Creating the undercloud is the second phase of the HP Helion installation process. 

####What is the overcloud? {#whatisovercloud}

The overcloud is the functional cloud available to run guest virtual machines and workloads. It offers access to the Nova, Neutron, Glance, Keystone, Cinder, Swift, Ironic, Heat, Horizon, and Ceilometer services.  

Creating and configuring the overcloud completes the overall Helion OpenStack installation process. 

###Does HP Helion OpenStack work with hybrid or public cloud projects? {#hybridorpubliccloud}
Absolutely. HP Helion provides a proven hybrid IT strategy that enables migration of existing traditional IT workloads to appropriate cloud environments at the pace and volume that makes sense for your enterprise. 

##Specifications

###What's New in this Release?
See the whole list of [what's new](/helion/openstack/1.1/whatsnew/) in this release.

###How many nodes and virtual machines does it support? {#nodes}

HP Helion OpenStack will currently support up to 100 nodes with up to 40 virtual machines per node, subject to the capacity of the hardware.

###How can I update to the latest version? {#softwareupdate}

HP OpenStack Helion does not support an update utility to update from previous releases. For help with updating, visit the [HP Customer Support](http://www.hpcloud.com/about/contact) page and choose your preferred method of contact.

####Does HP Helion OpenStack include an Operating System (OS)? {#includeOS}

Yes. It includes an integrated Linux&#174; host OS hardened and tested for this distribution. All supported hardware and software configurations are laid out in the [Support Matrix](/helion/openstack/1.1/support-matrix/).

###Which OpenStack release does this distribution include? {#releaseversion}

All of the [HP Helion OpenStack services](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/#OpenStack) have been updated to [OpenStack Juno](http://www.openstack.org/software/juno/). [Learn more](http://www.hpcloud.com/learning-center) about HP's commitment to OpenStack and how we're making it even better.

###Can HP Helion OpenStack run on non-HP hardware? {#nonhphardware}

HP Helion OpenStack does not require HP-branded hardware. All supported hardware and software configurations are laid out in the [Support Matrix](/helion/openstack/1.1/support-matrix/).
##More Information

###Where can I find more information? {#MoreInfo}

* [HP Helion OpenStack Documentation](https://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/openstack/1.1/) 
* [HP Helion OpenStack Portal](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/cloud/hphelion-openstack.html)
* [HP Customer Support](http://www.hpcloud.com/about/contact)
* [Consult with a Cloud Specialist](http://go.hpcloud.com/Consultation)

###Is there an alternative to the full version? {#community}
The [HP Helion OpenStack Community edition](/helion/community/) is a free-to-license distribution that speeds deployment and simplifies management of small-scale open cloud environments and infrastructure services. It supports up to 30 physical nodes and 600 virtual nodes making it ideal for small-scale, evaluation, and proof of concept deployments.

###What application developer resources are available? {#developer}
The [HP Helion Development Platform](/helion/devplatform/1.1/) provides developers and IT professionals with an open development platform designed for agility. 

###Where can I report issues with HP Helion OpenStack? {#reportissues}

To report issues with HP Helion OpenStack, contact [HP Customer Support](http://www.hpcloud.com/about/contact).  

###Is this release localized for non-English speaking markets? {#localized}

No. The current release is available in English only.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>
