---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: DNS as a Service (DNSaaS) Overview"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/dns/overview/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: Cloud Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Network Administrator 
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
role8: Network Engineer 
authors: Paul F

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/horizon/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/tripleo/overview/"> NEXT &#9654</a> </p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: DNS as a Service (DNSaaS) Overview#
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/helion/openstack/services/dns/overview/)

Based on the OpenStack Designate project, the HP Helion OpenStack DNS-as-a-service feature (DNSaaS) provides a Domain Name System (DNS) service for use by HP Helion OpenStack users.

DNSaaS includes a set of RESTful APIs for the display, creation, modification and deletion of DNS records.

DNSaaS for the OpenStack platform includes:

- REST APIs for domain/record management
- Multi-tenancy
- Integration with Keystone for authentication
- A framework in place to integrate with Nova and Quantum notifications (for auto-generated records)
- Support for PowerDNS in the current version

For example, if a user wants to access *mytestdomain.com* in a web browser, DNS provides the mechanism the browser uses to locate the server's IP address (for example, `1.2.3.4`).

**Note:** Installing HP Helion OpenStack DNSaaS is optional. Before you attempt the DNSaaS installation, you must have already installed HP Helion OpenStack and verified that it is  correctly configured and operational.

Learn how to [install DNS as a service](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/dnsaas/).

##Key Terms

Key terms include:

- **DNS** - A service that provides look up of the actual Internet address (IP address) of domains. 

- **Domain Name** - An identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority, or control on the Internet.

- **DNS Server** - A server that stores the DNS records for a domain name, such as address (A or AAAA) records, name server (NS) records, and mail exchanger (MX) records.

	A user of DNSaaS needs to set the nameservers for their domains, as described in the [API document](http://docs.hpcloud.com/api/dns).

## Working with DNSaaS

To [perform tasks using DNSaaS](#howto), you can use the API or CLI.

###Using the API to access DNSaaS<a name="API"></a>
 
You can use a low-level, raw REST API access to DNSaaS. See the [HP Helion Public Cloud DNS API Specifications](https://docs.hpcloud.com/api/dns/).

###Using the CLI<a name="cli"></a>

You can use the *python-designateclient* command line tool to access DNSaaS. See [Install the client from PyPI](http://python-designateclient.readthedocs.org/en/latest/shell.html).

For more information on installing the CLI, see [Install the OpenStack command-line clients](http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html).



## How To's with the HP Helion DNSaaS<a name="howto"></a>

The HP DNSaaS provides a way to display, create, modify, and delete DNS records. 

The following lists of tasks can be performed by a user or administrator through the [API](http://docs.hpcloud.com/api/dns), or [CLI](http://python-designateclient.readthedocs.org/en/latest/shell.html).


### Domain Operations ###

You can perform the following operations for the DNS domain:

- Creating and deleting domains
- Listing domains
- Modifying domains


### Record Operations ###

You can perform the following operations for DNS records:

- Creating and deleting records
- Listing records
- Modifying records

## For more information ##

For more information on the OpenStack Designate project, see the [OpenStack Designate wiki](https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Designate).


 <a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
