---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack: Managing Moonshot Servers"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/moonshot/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Tom H, Nancy M

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<p style="font-size: small;"> &#9664; <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/#csv">Prerequisites | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/overview/"> &#9650; Installation Overview</a> </p> 

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Managing Moonshot Servers


To manage HP Moonshot servers you must know the cartridge address and the node
address (these are also known as the **transit&#95;address** and the **target&#95;address**
respectively).

  
- **transit&#95;address** and **target&#95;address** are the values that would be specified
to the `-T` and `-t` flags of ipmitool, respectively, when using dual bridging mode.

- **Node Address** `-t target_address`
Moonshot cartridges may have one or more nodes in a single cartridge.
The first node in the cartridge has `0x72` as its node address. Anders cartridge
has only one node and so the node address will always be `0x72` for Anders.<br>

As of today, a Moonshot cartridge can have up to 4 nodes. So the second, third and fourth 
nodes will have `0x74`, `0x76` and `0x78` as their addresses, respectively.

- Cartridge Address `-T transit_address`
Below is a sample mapping between the cartridge-no and cartridge address.
The address increases by 2  as the cartridge number increases
	- C1N1  = 0x82
	- C2N1  = 0x84
	- C3N1  = 0x86
	- C10N1 = 0x94 
	- C11N1 = 0x96
	- C28N1 = 0xB8


This command gives the Cartridge address:

	ipmitool -I lanplus -H xx.xx.xx.xx -U Administrator -P xxxxx sdr list mcloc


Using these values
 
**ipmitool -I lanplus -H &lt;hostname&gt;[-U &lt;username&gt;][-P &lt;password&gt;]&lt;command&gt;**

Consult [HP Moonshot iLO documentation](http://h50146.www5.hp.com/products/software/oe/linux/mainstream/support/whitepaper/pdfs/c03933550-1.pdf) to determine the values needed.


[Return to HP Helion OpenStack&reg;: Installation Prerequisites](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/#csv).

<!--Tom hancock-->

----
