---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack 1.1: Configuring for OpenStackClient"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/openstack-client/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, Michael T,

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>


<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/#ldap">&#9650; Prerequisites</a> </p> 


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Configuring for OpenStackClient

The OpenStackClient (OSC) is a command-line client for OpenStack that brings the command set for Compute, Identity, Image, Object Store and Volume APIs together in a single shell with a uniform command structure.

OSC is also known as the **OpenStackClient unified command line utility**. For more information on OpenStackClient, see [OpenStack documentation](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/python-openstackclient/).

To use OSC with HP Helion OpenStack, you need to change some environment variables that are set by the stackrc file. 

To configure HP Helion OpenStack to use the OpenStackClient:

1. Log in to the seed cloud host.

		sudo su -

2. SSH to the node where you want to run OSC, such as the seed VM, the undercloud node or overcloud controller node.

		ssh root@192.0.2.1 

3. Source the stackrc file:

		source ./stackrc

3. Execute the following commands to set environment variables required for OSC:

		export OS_TENANT_NAME=
		export OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3
		export OS_AUTH_URL=$(echo $OS_AUTH_URL | sed -e 's/v2\.0$/v3/')
		export OS_DOMAIN_NAME=default
		export OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME=default

	**Where**

	* `OS_TENANT_NAME` -- Must be unset (or set to empty string).
	* `OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION` -- Use this variable to specify OpenStack Identity API version `3`.
	* `OS_AUTH_URL` -- Use this variable to configre the Keystone API endpoint to version 3. The default stackrc sets this to the version 2 endpoint.
	* `OS_DOMAIN_NAME` -- Must be set to default. 
	* `OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME` -- Must be set to default.

Once environment setup is done, the OSC is ready to use.

	openstack domain list

	+----------------------------------+---------+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
	| ID	| Name	| Enabled	| Description |
	+----------------------------------+---------+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
	| 54c1df33b343 	| heat	| True	| Owns users and projects created by heat |
	| default	| Default	| True	| Owns users and tenants (i.e. projects) available on Identity API v2. |
	+----------------------------------+---------+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

OSC is using self-documenting approach. Use the `openstack --help` command to get list of available commands, and `openstack help <cmd>` to get help on a specific command.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593;</a>
