---
layout: default
title: "How to build a Microsoft Windows Server guest image for HP Helion OpenStack "
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/create-deploy/certified-microsoft-windows/guest-image/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: Cloud Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Network Administrator 
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
role8: Network Engineer 
authors: Lou G


---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!---
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->


# HP Helion OpenStack&reg; 1.1: How to build Microsoft Windows Server guest images for HP Helion OpenStack 
This document describes how to create and deploy the following Microsoft Windows Server guest images on HP Helion OpenStack:<br>
[How to build a supported Microsoft Windows Server guest image for HP Helion OpenStack.](#supported) <br>
[How to build a non-supported Microsoft Windows Server guest image for HP Helion OpenStack.](#nonsupported)

**Note:** To determine the maximum supported VM configuration for a given CPU architecture, please review the HP entries in the [Windows Server Catalog](http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/results.aspx?&chtext=&cstext=&csttext=&chbtext=&bCatID=1521&cpID=897&avc=0&ava=0&avq=0&OR=1&PGS=25&ready=0 "Windows Server Catalog") for Server Virtualization.

## HP Helion OpenStack with Microsoft Windows Server Reference Architecture 

HP Helion OpenStack is HPs hardened, tested, enterprise-grade distribution of OpenStack cloud software, designed to deliver the best open source cloud computing technology in a stable, maintainable and manageable package. It offers a number of value-added services that complement and enhance OpenStack technologies. This document describes how to create a Microsoft Windows Server 2012, 2012 R2, 2008, or 2008 R2 image for deployment within HP Helion OpenStack. The Microsoft Windows Server images can be created on a 64-bit workstation running Ubuntu 13.10 or higher on physical hardware that supports KVM. 

## How to build a supported Microsoft Windows Server guest image for HP Helion OpenStack ## {#supported}
The following section describes the procedure to create and deploy Microsoft Windows Server that is Microsoft SVVP (Server Virtualization Validation Program) compliant on HP Helion OpenStack as a Nova compute VM


##Create and deploy a supported Microsoft Windows Server image on HP Helion OpenStack

In the following steps we will use Windows Server 2012 as the example. Windows Server evaluation images are available on the [Microsoft website](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/try) (registration required).
To create a Microsoft Windows Server 2012 guest image, follow these steps:

1.	**Download Windows Server 2012** <br> 
Download the Windows Server installation ISO. 

2.	**Create the qcow2 image file** <br>
You can use the `qemu-img` command with the create switch to create the initial image file, for example:

		qemu-img create -f qcow2 ws2012.qcow2 15G

	In this example, a 15GB qcow2 disk image file is created and is named ws2012.qcow2. In most cases 15GB is adequate for an operating system only install. If you expect the Windows Server 2012 disk image to increase in size, you can specify a larger value.


3.	**Start the Windows Server 2012 installation with the virt-install command** <br>
The `virt-install` command can be used to install a new guest operating system on a disk image file. `virt-install` is part of the `virtinst` package. To install the `virtinst` package, type the following command, and then press Enter:

		sudo apt-get install virtinst

	In the following example, the `virt-install` command is used to install Windows Server 2012 on the disk image that you created earlier in Step 2:

		virt-install --connect qemu:///system --name ws2012 --ram 2048 --vcpus 2 --network network=default,model=rtl8139 --disk path=ws2012.qcow2,format=qcow2,device=disk,bus=ide --cdrom <path_to_windows_2012_iso> --vnc --os-type windows --os-variant win2k8

	Where:<br>
 	--name: The name of the Windows Server 2012 virtual machine.<br>
	--ram: The amount of RAM. <br>
	--vcpus: The number of virtual cpus. <br>
	--network: The type of network interface. <br>
	--disk: Path to the disk image (ide bus in the example above). <br>
	--cdrom: Path to operating system .iso file. <br>
	--vnc: Used for console connections. <br>
	--os-type: Operating system type. <br>
	--os-variant: (Optional) Used to specify an operating system variant. <br>

	You can use `virt-manager` or `virt-viewer` to connect to the VMs console and start the windows installation. Make sure that you shut down the windows guest image after the installation is complete.


4.	**Upload the qcow2 image to glance**<br>
You can use the glance `image-create` command to upload the Windows Server 2012 image to Glance, for example:

		glance image-create --name WS2012 --disk-format qcow2 --container-format bare --is-public true --file ws2012.qcow2

5.	**Set metadata properties to the Glance image**<br>
You can add useful metadata information to the image, such as operating system information or hardware details by using the glance image-update command, for example:

		glance image-update WS2012 --property os_type=windows --property hw_disk_bus=ide --property hw_vif_model=rtl8139

## How to build a non-supported Microsoft Windows Server guest image for HP Helion OpenStack ## {#nonsupported}

In the following steps we will use Windows Server 2012 as the example. Windows Server evaluation images are available on the [Microsoft website](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/try) (registration required).
To create a Microsoft Windows Server 2012 guest image, follow these steps: <br>

1.	**Download Windows Server 2012** <br> 
Download the Windows Server installation ISO. 

2.	**Step 2: Download virtual drivers** <br>
Download signed VirtIO drivers ISO from the [Fedora website](http://alt.fedoraproject.org/pub/alt/virtio-win/latest/images/.)

		
3.	**Start the installation of Windows Server 2012**
Use Virt-manager to start Installation of Windows Server 2012 and provide the following information:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter a descriptive name.
   2. Select **Local install media**, and then click **Forward**.
   3. Click **Browse** and select the location where the ISO image is located, and then click **Forward**.
   4. Assign **4096** MB of memory and **4** CPUs, and then click **Forward**.
   5. Create a disk of **30** GB. Uncheck the **Allocate entire disk now** option, and then click **Forward**.
   6. Click to enable the **Customize configuration before install** option.
   7. Under **Advanced options**, in the **Disk** section, set disk bus to **Virtio**.
   8. Click **Add Hardware**, and then add an IDE CDROM that points to the download location for the VirtIO drivers ISO.
   9. Click **Finish** to start the installation.
4. Enable the VirtIO drivers. The disk is not automatically detected by the Windows installer. When requested to choose an installation target, click **Load driver**. Browse the file system, and then select E:\WIN8\AMD64 folder. The Windows installer displays a list of drivers to install. Select the drivers, and then continue with the installation. Once the installation is completed and the VM restarts, you can define a password for the administrator when prompted.
5. Login to the VM as administrator and start a command window.
6. Complete the VirtIO drivers installation by running the following command:

    `pnputil.exe -i -a E:\WIN8\AMD64\*.INF`
7. Set the PowerShell execution policy. To allow Cloudbase-Init to run scripts during an instance boot, set the PowerShell execution policy to be unrestricted, by running the following commands:

    `powershell` <br>
    `Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted`
8. Download Cloudbase-Init x64 version for 64 bit operating system: 
[https://github.com/stackforge/cloudbase-init](https://github.com/stackforge/cloudbase-init)
9. Install Cloudbase-Init. During the installation of Cloudbase-Init, in the Configuration options window, change the following settings:

    `Username : Admin`

    `Network Adapter to configure : Red Hat VirtIO Ethernet Adapter`

    `Serial port for logging : COM1`

10. Complete the Cloudbase-Init setup. Once the installation is complete, in the **Complete the Cloudbase-Init setup Wizard** window, select the **Run Sysprep** and **Shutdown** check boxes. Click **Finish** and wait for the Windows Server image to shut down.





##More information

HP Helion Professional Services are available to assist you along each step of your cloud journey, from helping you define your business needs to deploying Microsoft Windows Server VMs within your HP Helion OpenStack cloud. As your trusted adviser, we will show you how to get started, the steps you will take to achieve your desired business outcomes, and once it's up and running we will show you how to support and scale your cloud based on best practices gained in operating one of the world's largest OpenStack clouds and thousands of customer cloud deployments.

###Learn more at:

* [hp.com/helion/](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/cloud/helion-overview.html)
* [docs.hpcloud.com/helion/openstack/1.1/](http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/openstack/1.1/)
* [docs.openstack.org/](http://docs.openstack.org/)



<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
