---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Troubleshooting OVSvApp"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/ovsvapp/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: Cloud Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Network Administrator 
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
role8: Network Engineer 
authors: Paul F

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<p style="font-size: small;"><a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/"> &#9650; Troubleshooting</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/ovsvapp/"> &#9650; Deploying and Configuring OVSvApp on ESX hosts</a> </p> 

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1:  Troubleshooting OVSvApp Installation and Operation

If you are having issues with the installation or operation of the OVSvApp, review these tips:

- Install prerequisite [python library pyvmomi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyvmomi). You can install the library using the following command:

		pip install --upgrade pyvmomi

	Even if pyvmomi is already installed, run the command again to update the library to get major fixes.

- During installation of OVSvApp VMs on a large scale, OVSvApp VM can hang and installation might not proceed. If this happens, execute the `neutron agent list` command. If the output shows a OVSvApp VM in the `xxx` agent state, rerun the installation for that specific failed OVSvApp VM by specifying the ESX host name in the `new_hosts` field under the `new-host-addition` section of the `ovs_vapp.ini` file.

- In a multiple vCenter environment, during tenant VMs spawn, if a VM fails to spawn on one vCenter server and successfully spawns on another vCenter server, check for stale portgroups, which causes stale OVS Flows. If an OVSvApp agent needs to be restarted, the OVS flows might be slow to be restored. If that happens, restart the agent to stabilize the flows.

- If DRS and HA are enabled on the cluster, VMs except OVSvApp VM will migrate to other ESX hosts.

- If the `neutron agent list` command shows a specific OVSvApp agent up and running, but you see an ESX host in maintenance mode, you can disable agent monitoring for the OVSvApp solution. To disable agent monitoring, add a flag `enable_agent_monitor` set to `false` as `enable_agent_monitor = false` to the `/etc/neuton/neutron.conf` file. Restart the server to activate the value.

- Do not delete a tenant VM port via "neutron port-delete" command for a tenant VM.

- For any Operating System related issues:
<br>	[hLinux Bugzilla](http://hlinux-home.usa.hp.com/bugzilla/) 

- In a scalable environment, portgroups might not get deleted when the `nova delete` command is run.

- The VM port binding is with the host name of the OVSvApp VM on the ESX Compute host which provisioned the tenant VM. 

- When vCenter username <"vCenter_username"> has domain included, provide username details in username@domain format.

- When `cert_check` is **False**, `cert_path` should be a blank field.

- For Helion ESX type install, do not attempt to revert the Overcloud nodes from 1.01 to 1.0 through the restore process. Restoring will power down the ESX hosts associated with the registered vCenter cluster. <!-- ALM 11335 --> 




## Contacting Customer Service ## {#sos}

If you need further assistance, contact [HP Customer Support](http://www.hpcloud.com/about/contact). 

Before contacting HP Customer Support, [run the `run-sosreport` command](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/#sos) on the affected system. 

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593;</a>


