<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2578">
<title>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> 1.1: Monitor Disk Usage</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Sunitha K, Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-swift-deployment-monitor-swift-disk.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/object/swift/Monitor-disk/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The <b>
<i>Icinga</i>
</b> service, which runs in the undercloud, helps cloud admins monitor the disk usage of Object Storage (Swift) storage node(s).</p>
<section id="prerequisites"> <title>Prerequisites</title>
<ul>
<li>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> cloud is successfully deployed. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--><i>(Starter Object Storage (Swift) nodes are functional by default as they are part of cloud deployment)</i>
</li>
<li>The Icinga service is active and running in the undercloud</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="monitoring-disk-usage-of-object-storage-swift"> <title>Monitoring Disk Usage of Object Storage (Swift)</title>
<p>Icinga checks the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>That the file systems used by the servers are mounted. </li>
<li>The disk usage (by percentage) for the devices in use by Swift (/srv/node). </li>
</ul>
<p>Note that other file systems such as <codeph>/usr</codeph> or <codeph>/var</codeph> are not monitored.</p>
<p>Perform the following steps to monitor the usage of Swift disk:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the undercloud Horizon dashboard, log in to the <b>Icinga Dashboard</b> (http://&lt;Undercloud_IP&gt;/icinga/). The default login credentials are as follows:</p>

<ul>
<li>Username: <i>icingaadmin</i>
</li>
<li>Password: <i>icingaadmin</i> </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Status</b> on the left panel and then click 
<xref format="html" href="javascript:window.open('/media/icinga_host-details.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')" >
<b>
<varname>Host Detail</varname>
</b>
<!--(opens in a new window)-->
</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Host</b> column, <xref format="html" href="javascript:window.open('/media/swift_icinga_view-details.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')" >
<b>click the icon</b>
<!-- (opens in a new window)--> </xref> next to the host IP when the tooltip displays as "View Service Details For This Host". <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
The page navigates to Service Status Details For Host &lt;Swift node IP address &gt; and displays the <xref format="html" href="javascript:window.open('/media/swift_icinga-disk-usage.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')" >
<b>disk usage</b>
<!-- (opens in a new window)-->
</xref>   of the selected Swift node.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<!--
4. Click the target Swift node IP address to open the  <a href="javascript:window.open('/media/swift_icinga-disk-usage.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')"><b><i>Service Status Details For Host &lt;Swift node IP address &gt;</i></b></a> to view the disk usage of the selected Swift node.-->
</section>
<section id="status-messages"> <title>Status Messages</title>
<table>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<colspec colname="col3"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Status</entry>
    <entry>
<ph>Message</ph>
</entry>
    <entry>
<ph>Cause/Resolution</ph>

</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>OK </entry>
    <entry>Percent used</entry>
    <entry> Percent disk usage for devices used by Swift (/srv/node)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>WARNING </entry>
    <entry>Disk space low</entry>
    <entry>The percentage used space of one of the disk drives exceeds the user defined threshold(Default set to 85% for HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion Openstack</tm> 1.0). It is important to prevent Swift devices becoming full because it is difficult to recover if this happens. To resolve, add more devices to the rings or ask your users to delete objects.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>FAIL </entry>
    <entry>Disk space critically low</entry>
    <entry>The available space on one of the disk drives has dropped below the "fallocate_reserve" given in &lt;object-server-configuration&gt;. If no value is given in the object server configuration file, this value defaults to zero. Swift cannot store more data on the drive if the available space drops below this defined limit.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic2578"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
