<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3422">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1 and 1.1.1: Locating IP Address</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1: Locating IP Addresses</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B,"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.install-ip-addresses.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/ip-address/--></p>
<p>
  <b>This document describes the installation process for HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1 and HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1.1.</b>
</p>
<p>(If you already have 1.1 installed, you can update Helion OpenStack(R) from 1.1 to 1.1.1 by following the update procedures described in <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1.1commercial.helion-update.dita" >HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1.1 Update Guide</xref>.)</p>
<p>If you need to locate IP addresses of the seed VM, the undercloud node or the overcloud controller, see the following sections.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3422/seed">Locate the Seed VM IP Address</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3422/under">Locate the Undercloud IP Address</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3422/over">Locate the Overcloud IP Address</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="seed"> <title>Locate the Seed VM IP Address</title>
<p>To locate the seed VM IP address, from the seed cloud host, using either of the following methods, based on preference.</p>
</section>
<section id="using-virsh-and-arp-commands"> <title>Using virsh and ARP commands</title>
<p>You can locate the seed VM MAC address in the virsh configuration file and use ARP to locate the IP address of that MAC address.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Use the virsh CLI to display information on the seed VM.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo virsh dumpxml seed|grep mac
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The output appears similar to the following:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>&lt;partition&gt;/machine&lt;/partition&gt;
&lt;type arch='x86_64' machine='pc-i440fx-trusty'&gt;hvm&lt;/type&gt;
&lt;mac address='52:54:00:5b'/&gt;
&lt;mac address='00:55:5c:17'/&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use the <codeph>arp</codeph> command to locate the IP address using the MAC address.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>arp -n | grep 00:55:5c:17
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The output appears similar to the following:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>10.23.70.10 ether   00:55:5c:17:e8:17   C   brbm
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The seed VM IP address for this cloud is <codeph>10.23.70.10</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="using-the-arp-cache"> <title>Using the ARP cache</title>
<p>You can use ARP commands to locate the IP address of the seed VM interface,  <codeph>virbr</codeph>
</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Populate the ARP cache:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo ping -c 1 &lt;seed_cloud_host_IP_address&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use ARP commands to print the seed VM IP to the screen:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>(arp -n  | grep virbr | grep -v incomplete | awk '{print $1}')
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Example</b>
</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo ping -c 1 10.22.157.30

PING 10.22.157.30 (10.22.157.30) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 10.22.157.30: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.046 ms
--- 10.22.157.30 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.046/0.046/0.046/0.000 ms

arp -n | grep virbr | grep -v incomplete | awk '{print$1}')
10.23.70.10
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The seed VM IP address for this cloud is <codeph>10.23.70.10</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="under"> <title>Locate the Undercloud IP Address</title>
<p>To locate the IP address needed to log into the undercloud node:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log into the seed VM.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;seed_VM_IP_address&gt; 
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Example:</b>
</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@10.23.70.10
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Execute the following commands:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>. /root/stackrc
UNDERCLOUD_IP=$(nova list | cut -d '|' -f 7 | grep ctlplane | awk -F  = '{print $2}')
echo $UNDERCLOUD_IP
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The undercloud IP address appears.</p>
</section>
<section id="over"> <title>Locate the Overcloud IP Address</title>
<p>To locate the IP address to log into the overcloud controller:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log into the seed VM.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;seed_VM_IP_address&gt; 
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Example:</b>
</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@10.23.70.10
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Execute the following commands:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>. /root/tripleo/tripleo-undercloud-passwords
TE_DATAFILE=/root/tripleo/ce_env.json
. /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/undercloudrc
OVERCLOUD_IP=$(heat output-show overcloud-ce-controller KeystoneURL | cut -d: -f2 | sed s,/,,g )
echo $OVERCLOUD_IP
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The overercloud IP address appears.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3422"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
