---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Configuring Horizon for Keystone v3"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/identity/configure/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, Emily W, Dan N,

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/imaging/overview/"> NEXT &#9654</a> </p>
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Configuring Horizon for Keystone v3

Horizon does not support Keystone v3 or domains by default.  

As a result: 

* The admin cannot perform domain management using the Horizon dashboard.
* If an admin creates a user though the CLI using a Keystone v3 token, the user will not be able to log in to the Horizon dashboard.  Any user created from within Horizon is able to log into Horizon, but the user will be in the default domain.  

To use Keystone v3 in Horizon, you can manually change the following settings. When Keystone v3 is enabled, all User, Project, and Domain management must be done via the CLI.  The Identity panel will not be visible in Horizon.

To switch Horizon from Keystone v2 to Keystone v3:

1.	In each controller node, navigate to the `local_settings.py` file located in `/opt/stack/venvs/openstack/lib/python2.7/site-packages/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py` 

2. Edit the file as follows:

	a. Set the OpenStack API version to version 3:

		OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
		"identity": 3,
		}

	b. Enable multi-domain support:

		OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True

	c. Point to Keystone V3 endpoint:

		OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST

	The Keystone v3 endpoint is in the format: `http://<host>:<port>/v3` and is the same host/port as the v2 endpoint. The `local_settings.py` file will have the endpoint for v2 by default. 


3.	Restart the apache server in each controller nodes:

		sudo service apache2 restart


----
