<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2396">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Compute Service Overview</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-compute-overview.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Compute Service leverages the <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Nova compute service to instantiate virtual machine instances on publicly accessible physical machines hosted in your cloud environment.</p>
<p>Compute allows you to work with <b>flavors</b>, which are unique combinations of disk space, memory capacity, and CPU; <b>images</b>, which are collections of files used as a base installation, typically operating systems; and <b>servers</b>, which are virtual instances created by combining a flavor and an image.</p>
<p>The variety of flavors and images supported by HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> provide a wide range of options for building your instances.</p>
<section id="working-with-the-compute-service"> <title>Working with the Compute Service</title>
<p>The easiest way to perform Compute service tasks is through the <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.how-works.dita" >HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Dashboard</xref>. The Dashboard provides a graphical interface for managing your instances.</p>
<!--Verified at from http://wiki.hpcloud.net/display/core/Core+Edition+Use+cases#CoreEditionUsecases-OverCloud and on the horizon console-->
<p>The following list represents typical Compute service tasks for Users. Administrators will be able to perform additional management tasks.</p>
<ul>
<li>Instance Management

<ul>
<li>Create/Edit/Terminate</li>
<li>Soft/Hard Reboot</li>
<li>Rebuild </li>
<li>Start/Stop</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Create/delete snapshots   </li>
<li>Attach/detach volumes</li>
<li>View the instance log</li>
<li>Access the instance console</li>
<li>Associate/disassociate floating IP addresses</li>
</ul>
<p>You can also access the HP Compute service through the <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/novaclient_commands.html" scope="external" format="html" >command-line client</xref> or use a low-level, raw <xref href="http://api.openstack.org/api-ref-compute-v2.html" scope="external" format="html" >REST API</xref>. Refer to the <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> guide for client <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html" scope="external" format="html" >installation instructions</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="for-more-information"> <title>For more information</title>
<ul>
<li>
<xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.troubleshooting.compute.dita" >Troubleshooting</xref> the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Compute Service</li>
<li>
<p>The <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/ops/" scope="external" format="html" ><tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Operations Guide</xref>. The <i>Operations</i> section contains valuable management information. While the <i>Architecture</i> section contains interesting information about how an <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Cloud is put together, HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> takes care of these details for you.</p>

<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2396"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
