---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Configuring NTP"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/ntp/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, 

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/#ntp">&#9664; Prerequisites | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/overview/"> &#9650; Installation Overview</a> </p> 

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 and 1.1.1: Configuring NTP

**This document describes the installation process for HP Helion OpenStack 1.1 and HP Helion OpenStack 1.1.1.**

(If you already have 1.1 installed, you can update Helion OpenStack from 1.1 to 1.1.1 by following the update procedures described in [HP Helion OpenStack 1.1.1 Update Guide](/helion/openstack/1.1.1/update/).)

This page provides detailed information on [configuring HP Helion OpenStack nodes](#client) for Network Time Protocol (NTP) and [instlling an NTP server on the seed cloud host](#server). 

NTP is a networking protocol for clock synchronization between computer systems. The undercloud and overcloud systems are configured as NTP clients during the installation process.

HP Helion OpenStack requires that all nodes point to the same NTP server. You can use an external NTP server or configure the seed cloud host as a server. 

**Notes:** 

* NTP clients should use only stratum 2 and higher servers (meaning stratum 1 or stratum 0).
* All the Helion servers use UTC as a time zone.

## Install an NTP server on the seed  {#server}

To configure an NTP server, follow these steps: 

1. Log in to the seed cloud host.

		sudo su -

2. Install the NTP package using the following command:

		sudo apt-get install ntp

3. Add NTP servers to `/etc/ntp.conf`. The following example use servers from the NTP Pool Project:

		server ntp.ubuntu.com
		server 127.127.1.0

	**Note:** The NTP stratum must be numerically lower than 10 (meaning stratum 9, stratum 8, etc.) in order to use as a source. If one is not available, you may be able to [fudge one](#fudge).

4. Configure system time zone using the `tzselect` command.

	a. Change to the /usr/bin/` directory.

	b. Execute the `tzselect` command. The available time zones are listed.

	c. Select from the listed time zones by entering a number at the promnpt.

	The output should be placed in `/etc/profile` and executed on the command line.

		source /etc/profile

5. Verify that your server is broadcasting using the `ntpq -p` command. You should see a message similar to the following: 

		ntpq -p
		remote 	refid 	st	t	when	poll	reach	delay	offset	jitter
		==============================================================================
		*ops-ae1ops-ntp0	209.51.161.238	2	u	242	1024	377	0.509	0.043	0.206
		LOCAL(0)	.LOCL.	10	l	76h	64	0	0.000	0.000	0.000

	You can now point clients to your NTP server

## Configure all other nodes as NTP clients {#client}

1. SSH to the node you want to configure.

2. Add your NTP server IP to the clients `/etc/ntp.conf` file.

3. Configure system time zone using the `tzselect` command.

	a. Change to the /usr/bin/` directory.

	b. Execute the `tzselect` command. The available time zones are listed.

	c. Select from the listed time zones by entering a number at the promnpt.

	The output should be placed in `/etc/profile` and executed on the command line.

		source /etc/profile

4. Restart the NTP service.

		service ntp restart

5. Verify that you have a connection to the NTP server.

		ntpq -pd

		1 packets reassembled into response
		remote	refid	st	t	when	poll	reach	delay	offset	jitter
		==============================================================================
		2 packets reassembled into response
		+ntp0 209.51.161.238	2	u	82	1024	377	0.286	0.117	0.349

6. Verify that your server shows client connections.

		ntpdc -c monlist

		ntpdc -c monlist
		remote address	port	local address	count	m	ver	rstr	avgint	lstint
		===============================================================================
		ntp0001.use	123 10.22.170.17	2365	4	4	1d0	1000	384



### Fudging a stratum lower than 10 {#fudge}

NTP uses a hierarchical, semi-layered system of time sources. Each level of this hierarchy is termed a *stratum* and is assigned a number starting with zero at the top. The number represents the distance from the reference clock and is used to prevent cyclical dependencies in the hierarchy. 

The numerically lower the stratum value, the higher priority that clock has. 

HP Helion OpenStack uses stratum 10. Using a numerically high stratum ensures that this is only used if all external clocks fail. This will mitigate skew until external clocks return to service.

If your NTP stratum is numerically less than 10, set up your host as the time source by fudging a stratum 10.

1. Configure host as a time source.

2. Add the following to /etc/ntp.conf to force a stratum 10.

		server 127.127.1.0
		fudge 127.127.1.0 stratum 10

3. Restart the NTP service

		service ntp restart

Using `fudge` to configure the local clock as stratum 10 makes NTP use the local clock when no timeservers are available. The system will only use the local clock if your system cannot access the NTP server.


## Troubleshooting ##

### Trouble synching ###

If your client (including your NTP server) has trouble syncing time, see [Troubleshooting NTP](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/ntp/#synch).


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593;</a>



