---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Locating IP Addresses"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/ip-address/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, 

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Locating IP Address

If you need to locate IP addresses of the seed VM, the undercloud node or the overcloud controller, see the following sections.

* [Locate the Seed VM IP Address](#seed)
* [Locate the Undercloud IP Address](#under)
* [Locate the Overcloud IP Address](#over)

## Locate the Seed VM IP Address ## {#seed}

To locate the seed VM IP address, from the seed cloud host, using either of the following methods, based on preference.

### Using virsh and ARP commands

You can locate the seed VM MAC address in the virsh configuration file and use ARP to locate the IP address of that MAC address.

1. Use the virsh CLI to display information on the seed VM.

		sudo virsh dumpxml seed|grep mac

	The output appears similar to the following:

		<partition>/machine</partition>
		<type arch='x86_64' machine='pc-i440fx-trusty'>hvm</type>
		<mac address='52:54:00:5b'/>
		<mac address='00:55:5c:17'/>
 
2. Use the `arp` command to locate the IP address using the MAC address.

		arp -n | grep 00:55:5c:17

	The output appears similar to the following:

		10.23.70.10	ether	00:55:5c:17:e8:17	C	brbm

The seed VM IP address for this cloud is `10.23.70.10`.

### Using the ARP cache

You can use ARP commands to locate the IP address of the seed VM interface,  `virbr`

1. Populate the ARP cache:

		sudo ping -c 1 <seed_cloud_host_IP_address>

2. Use ARP commands to print the the seed VM IP to the screen:

		(arp -n  | grep virbr | grep -v incomplete | awk '{print $1}')

	**Example**

		sudo ping -c 1 10.22.157.30

		PING 10.22.157.30 (10.22.157.30) 56(84) bytes of data.
		64 bytes from 10.22.157.30: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.046 ms
		--- 10.22.157.30 ping statistics ---
		1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
		rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.046/0.046/0.046/0.000 ms

		arp -n | grep virbr | grep -v incomplete | awk '{print$1}')
		10.23.70.10

The seed VM IP address for this cloud is `10.23.70.10`.

## Locate the Undercloud IP Address ## {#under}

To locate the IP address needed to log into the undercloud node:

1. Log into the seed VM.


		ssh root@<seed_VM_IP_address> 

	**Example:**

		ssh root@10.23.70.10

2. Execute the following commands:

		. /root/stackrc
		UNDERCLOUD_IP=$(nova list | cut -d '|' -f 7 | grep ctlplane | awk -F  = '{print $2}')
		echo $UNDERCLOUD_IP

The undercloud IP address appears. 


## Locate the Overcloud IP Address ## {#over}

To locate the IP address to log into the overcloud controller: 

1. Log into the seed VM.

		ssh root@<seed_VM_IP_address> 

	**Example:**

		ssh root@10.23.70.10

2. Execute the following commands:

		. /root/tripleo/tripleo-undercloud-passwords
		TE_DATAFILE=/root/tripleo/ce_env.json
		. /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/undercloudrc
		OVERCLOUD_IP=$(heat output-show overcloud-ce-controller KeystoneURL | cut -d: -f2 | sed s,/,,g )
		echo $OVERCLOUD_IP

The overercloud IP address appears.



<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
