---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Preparing the Network"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/network/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, 

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/">&#9650; Installation Prerequisites</a>  </p> 


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Preparing the Network 

Before installing HP Helion OpenStack, you are responsible for preparing the network for all installations. You must also prepare the network based on the type of hypervisor you are installing, KVM or ESX. 

The network is not installed or managed by the cloud. You must install and manage the network and make sure there is a route to the Management network as described in this section.

### Preparing all networks {#network}

To ensure a successful installation, you must satisfy these network configuration requirements:

* The machine hosting the seed VM, and all baremetal systems have to be connected to a management network. 

* Nodes on this management network must be able to reach the iLO subsystem ([HP Integreated Lights-Out](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/products/servers/ilo/index.html)) of each baremetal systems to enable host reboots as part of the install process.

* The Helion OpenStack architecture required that the IPMI network is a separate network and a route exists from management network to the IPMI network for iLO access as explained above.

* Ensure network interfaces that are not used for PXE boot are disabled from BIOS to prevent PXE boot attempts from those devices.

* If you have other DHCP servers on the same network as your system, you must ensure that the DHCP server does not hand out IP addresses to your physical nodes as they PXE boot.

* The network interface intended as the bridge interface should be configured and working before running the installer. The installer creates a network bridge on the system running the installer, attaching the bridge interface to the network bridge. The installer uses the IP address of the bridge interface for the network bridge.

In addition to preparing all HP Helion OpenStack cloud networks, you need perform additional  tasks based on which hypervisor you are using: [KVM](#network_KVM) or [ESX](#network_ESX).

### Preparing the network for a KVM installation {#network_KVM}

If you are installing HP Helion OpenStack with KVM hypervisor support, you must configure your network as shown in the following diagram.

<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/topology_kvm.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">HP Helion OpenStack architecture diagram for KVM network architecture.</a>(opens in a new window)


You are responsible for providing the internal and external customer router and making sure the external, IPMI, and service networks are routed to and from the management network.

**Notes:**

- Distributed Virtual Routing (DVR) is used to route traffic between VMs and outside the cloud. As such, every Compute Node has a connection to the external network.
- Access to OpenStack service APIs is from the management network.
- The network path for platform service log messages is from the VM, to the service network (installed as a second vNIC), to the Customer Router, to  the management network, to the undercloud RabbitMQ, to LogStash.

### Preparing the network for an ESX installation {#network_ESX}

If you are installing HP Helion OpenStack for ESX hypervisor support, you must configure your network as shown in the following diagram.

<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/topology_esxnew.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">HP Helion OpenStack architecture diagram for ESX network architecture.</a>(opens in a new window)

**Note**

- Centralized Virtual Router (CVR) is used to route traffic between VMs and outside the cloud. DVR is not supported in ESX deployments.

#### Installing networks for ESX ##### {#install_network_ESX}

For ESX deployments, you must install and configure two specific networks:

1. The **ESX network**. This network must be installed and configured for the VMware vCenter environment. The network is used for communication between specific aspects of vCenter:

	- the OVSvApp communicates with the Networking Operations service (Neutron) message queue 

	- the Compute service communicates with the vCenter Proxy

	- the vCenter Proxy communicates with the message queue for the Compute and Volume Operations services. 

	- the EON service sub-component communicates with the vCenter server.

<!-- Remove per Satya; move to KVM??
2. The **Service network**. This network is for trusted VMs in overcloud to communicate with cloud infrastructure components in undercloud. The service network is used by all services for accessing the logging, monitoring, and customer-provided network services such as NTP and LDAP. VMs will need to add a NIC and attach a VLAN address to get access. Authentication is through the Identity Management service, where this Neutron Provider Network is defined for a single project. 
-->

### Other customer responsibilities and requirements for ESX {#other_network_ESX}

You are responsible for the following before beginning the HP Helion OpenStack installation:

- installing and configuring VMWare vSphere version 5.5;

- providing the customer router and making sure the external, IPMI, and service networks are routed to and from the management network;

- installing and managing the ESX network and for assigning IP addresses on it to the OVSvApp and vCenter Proxy nodes;

- providing a route for traffic between the Compute and Volume Operations services running on the vCenter Proxy node and the RabbitMQ and mySQL on the Cloud Controller:

	- The target IP addresses should be limited the ip addresses of the MySQL cluster nodes and RabbitMQ cluster nodes in the Over Cloud.
	- The Port numbers shall be limited to 5672 (RabbitMQ) and 3306 (MySQL)

- providing a route from the service subnet in the overcloud to the RabbitMQ on the undercloud controller:

	- The target IP addresses should be limited the ip addresses of the RabbitMQ cluster nodes in the undercloud.
	- The port numbers shall be limited to 5672 (RabbitMQ)

- providing a route from the EON service on the undercloud and the vCenter server;

- enabling VLAN trunking and native VLAN on the private network. This is to cater to untagged PXE traffic with the tenant.

