---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: TLS Support"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/tls/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion 1.1
role1: Service Developer
role2: Systems Administrator
role3: Security Architect
role4: Security Engineer
role5: Application Developer
role6: Network Administrator
role7: ISV Developer
role8: Application Architect

authors: Thom L, Tom C, Nancy M  

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/overview/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->

<!-- IMPORTANT!!! The HW support Matrix should be approved by:
* Gavin Brebner for Helion QA support
* Lynne Christofanelli  for HW Support qualified with hLinux
* Marty Duey for third party HW support (IHV Support)
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: TLS Support

The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, successor of SSL, provides the mechanisms to ensure authentication, non-repudiation, confidentiality, and integrity of user communications to the HP Helion OpenStack services and between the HP Helion OpenStack services themselves.

OpenStack endpoints are HTTP services providing APIs to other OpenStack services on the management network. All traffic to OpenStack services, both internal and external, are secured using  TLS connections.

The following secure service endpoints and their associated ports use TLS:

	ceilometer			8777
	cinder				8776
	glance-api			9292
	glance-registry		9191
	heat-api			8004
	heat-cfn			8000
	heat-cloudwatch		8003
	horizon				443
	keystone-admin		35357
	keystone-public		5000
	neutron				9696
	nova-novncproxy		6080
	nova-metadata		8775
	nova-api			8774
	sherpa				21131
	swift-proxy			8080

The TLS connections are facilitated by providing each node with a signed certificate from an internal certificate authority server (Ephemeral CA server) that is built into HP Helion OpenStack and installed on the Overcloud Controller nodes. These certificates are regenerated frequently - typically at least every 12 hours. The Helion Ephemeral certificate authority (CA) server uses a private key to sign these certificates provided to the OpenStack services, and an associated public certificate can be used to validate these newly signed certs. This key/cert pair can either be generated at installation time or be provided by the installer as an input to the installation process.  If you would like to use certificates from your own CA, please see [Configuring support for customer-provided certificates](/helion/openstack/1.1.1/customer-provided-certificates/).

If the deployer does not wish to generate the key/cert pair, the installer software will generate this pair and place the generated key and certificate at /root/eca.key and /root/eca.crt, respectively, on the seed.



If the deployer wishes to provide an intermediary CA cert/key pair, they should be placed on the seed before deployment at /root/eca.key and /root/eca.crt by running the following copy commands:

	scp <company-cacert.crt> root@<seed ip>:/root/eca.crt

	scp <company-cacert.key> root@<seed ip>:/root/eca.key

It is generally recommended that the deployer provide an intermediary CA key and certificate generated from a well-known certificate authority during the installation process, so trust can be established using the certificate chain. This can be either a specific certificate/key generated for this deployment, a general certificate/key that is used for test deployments by that organization, or a delegated signing certificate from another PKI to enable the use of existing trust relationships between users and that PKI. Either way, the deployer must provide the CA certificate to the Helion users, to enable secure TLS and prevent certificate errors and warnings.

The CA certificate/key pair must not be reused between deployments at different organizations, or in different deployments with differing levels of trust; for example, a public, untrusted Helion test system and an internal production system. 

Alternatively there are two variables that can be exported to point to the key and cert: EPHEMERAL&#095;CA&#095;KEY&#095;FILE and EPHEMERAL&#095;CA&#095;CERT&#095;FILE.
Once the seed host is up, from the underseed or other node that can reach the seed, run these commands before continuing with the rest of the deployment according to the installation guide:


	scp <company-cacert.crt> root@<seed ip>:/root/
	scp <company-cacert.key> root@<seed ip>:/root/

	ssh root@<seed ip>
	export EPHEMERAL_CA_KEY_FILE=/root/<company-cacert.key>
	export EPHEMERAL_CA_CERT_FILE=/root/<company-cacert.crt>


If the deployer has not provided a key/cert pair, the self-signed certificate created during the installation process must be retrieved from the seed at /root/eca.crt after deployment. This certificate can then be used to authenticate the TLS connection when connecting to any of the overcloud OpenStack services in the Helion OpenStack cloud. This can be retrieved using the following command:

	scp root@<seed ip>:/root/eca.crt ephemeralca.crt

If a self-signed certificate was created during the Helion OpenStack installation, you must install the generated certificate in your browser as a trusted CA to prevent messages about insecure connections when connecting to the Horizon IP address. This can be done by importing the eca.crt file from the seed as a trusted CA into your browser software.

Each client must use this certificate to authenticate the connection. How you achieve this will depend on the client you are using. Below are some ways you can achieve this with the OpenStack command line tools using the 'nova list' command as an example. The easiest way to make sure the clients use this certificate is to set the environmental variable OS&#095;CACERT to point to the EPHEMERAL&#095;CA&#095;CERT&#095;FILE that was copied off the seed.

	export OS_CACERT=</path/to/ephemeralca.crt>

Now when a service call is made, this cert will be used to authenticate the TLS connection:

	nova list

Another option supported by the clients is the --os-cacert argument:

	nova --os-cacert </path/to/ephemeralca.crt> list

Another option is for the clients not to authenticate TLS connections. This is not advised as this will mean the identity of the server you are contacting will not be verified. However if you want to bypass this check you can use the --insecure option. A certificate is not needed then.

	nova --insecure list

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
<!-- Sources:
http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/introduction-to-ssl-tls.html
http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/tls-proxies-and-http-services.html-->

<!-- Tom Cammann, Thom Leggett- SMEs Nova -->
