---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Using HP Helion OpenStack Dashboards"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/landing/dashboards/
product: commercial.test
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: All

authors: Micael B

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/3rd-party-license-agreements/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/">&#9650; UP</a> | NEXT &#9654; </p>
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174;: Using HP Helion OpenStack Dashboards


## Undercloud Horizon Dashboard {#underdash}

Review the following topics related to the undercloud Horizon dashboard:

[Undercloud Horizon Overview](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/horizon/overview/)
<br>The undercloud Horizon dashboard is the management interface for the undercloud.
<hr>
[Undercloud Horizon Dashboard: Settings Tab](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/admin/settings/)
<br>Configure user settings and change passwords
<hr>
[Manage Overcloud Configuration](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/)
<br>Define the configurations for ESX Clusters, StoreVirtual Backends, and StoreServ Backends.
<hr>
[Compute Service](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/resource/esx/compute/)
<br>Work with flavors, images and servers.
<hr>
[Manage Resources](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/manage/resources/overview/)
<br>Define the configurations for the compute and storage resources
<hr>
[Updates and Extensions](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/admin/updates-and-extension/)
<br>Downloading and publishing content and updates.
<hr>
[Working with Virtual Environment(s)](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/resource/esx/)
<br>Configure, manage and control multiple virtual instances.
<hr>
[Working with Storage](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/manage/resources/storage/)
<br>Configure storage by adding and registering HP StoreVirtual Clusters and HP 3PAR StoreServ.
<hr>
[Working with HP StoreVirtual VSA](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/storage/storevirtual/)
<br>Configure HP StoreVirtual VSA cluster as storage.
<hr>
[Working with ESX Clusters](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/esx/)
<br>Register vCenter and import clusters form the registered vCenter for use in your cloud.
<hr>
[Working with StoreServ Backends](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/storeserv/)
<br>Add, expand, shrink, delete StoreServ backends, generate Cinder configuration, and update the overcloud.
<hr>
[Working with HP 3PAR StoreServ](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/storage/storeserv/)
<br>Configure HP 3PAR StoreServ as storage, ensure accessiblity from the undercloud, and register a device.
<hr>
[Working With StoreVirtual Backends](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/)
<br>Add, expand, shrink, delete StoreServ backends, generate Cinder configuration, and update the overcloud.
<hr>
[Command Line Interface- EON](/helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/eon/cli/)
Use the EON client CLI package to manage ESX services.

## Horizon Dashboard {#dash}

Review the following topics related to the Horizon dashboard:

[How to use the Helion Dashboards](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/how-works/)
<br>Interact with HP Helion OpenStack overcloud using the Helion dashboard.
<hr>
[Logging into the Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/)
<br>Log into the Helion dashboard
<hr>

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>
 
----
