---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Identity Service (Keystone) Overview"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/identity/domains/
product: commercial.ga
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: JaymeP

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/services/imaging/overview/"> NEXT &#9654</a> </p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Domain Management

A domain is a high-level container for [projects](/helion/community/services/identity/overview/#project), [users](/helion/community/services/identity/overview/#user) and [groups](/helion/community/services/identity/overview/#group), each of which is *owned* by exactly one domain. Users, however, can be *associated* with multiple projects by granting project roles, even if that project is owned by a different domain.

* [Horizon UI Not Available](#horizon)
* [Client Installation](#clientinstall)
* [Namespaces](#namespaces)
* [Pre-requisites and Getting Started](#gettingstarted)

##Horizon UI Not Available {#horizon}

This initial implementation is targeted at sysadmins and developers interested in initial or proof-of-concept domain deployments. It it not integrated with the Horizon management console, regardless of the backend used (LDAP or MySQL)

Domain management is not available using the Helion OpenStack Horizon console. Use the [Keystone V3 API](http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-identity-v3.html) or the [command line client](#clientinstall) instead. 

If an admin creates a user though the CLI using a Keystone v3 token, that user will not be able to log in to the Horizon dashboard. Any user created from within Horizon is able to log into Horizon, but that user will be in the default domain.

## Client Installation {#clientinstall}

Note that the specific Keystone CLI (keystone-manage) has been deprecated in favor of the common OpenStack client supporting multiple services.

For more information, see [Installing the OpenStack command-line clients](http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html).
##Namespaces {#namespaces}

Each domain defines a namespace where certain API-visible name attributes exist, which affects whether those names must be globally unique or unique within that domain. 

In the Identity API, the uniqueness of the following attributes is as follows:

* Domain Name
* Role Name: Globally unique across all domains
* User Name: Unique within the owning domain.
* Project Name: Unique within the owning domain
* Group Name: Unique within the owning domain

##Domain Pre-requisites {#gettingstarted}
Access to the new Keystone Domains functions in Helion OpenStack is currently available only via the [Keystone V3 API](http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-identity-v3.html) or the common [OpenStack command line client](http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html). 

Note that domains are not available in Keystone v2. You must  first [configure the Identity service](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/identity/configure/) to use Keystone v3.

Before using the domain-specific APIs you must first:

1. Log in as the "cloud admin" user via an unscoped token request.
2. Use the [Keystone V3 API](http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-identity-v3.html) or [command line client](http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html) to assign an existing or new user to the admin role for the "default" domain.
3. Log in as the target user via domain-scoped token request.

