---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Documentation Home"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: All

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Documentation Home
[See version 1.0 of this page](/helion/openstack/)

HP Helion OpenStack is a commercial-grade distribution of OpenStack, the leading open source cloud computing platform. This distribution, backed by HP, enables customers to more easily build, manage, and use open-source based hybrid clouds in a resilient, maintainable platform. HP Helion OpenStack enables cost-effective scalability of IT services and business agility and, as part of the HP Helion portfolio, it is backed by a wide range of related cloud products, services, and professional support.

HP Helion OpenStack offers many services based on the different OpenStack projects to provide the functionality you need. Visit the [HP Helion OpenStack Services Overview page](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/) for a complete list of services. 

If you're unfamiliar with what's inside the box, have a look at the components inside HP Helion OpenStack on the [Under the Hood](http://docs.hpcloud.com/content/documentation/commercial/GA1/ServicesFlow/index.html) page.

##Get Started with HP Helion OpenStack {#getstart}

Use the following links and tools to begin working with HP Helion OpenStack:

* [Installation](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/overview/)
* [Installation Prerequisites](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/)
* [FAQ](/helion/openstack/1.1/faq/)
* [Technical overview](/helion/openstack/1.1/technical-overview/)
* [Services overview](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/)
* [Support matrix](/helion/openstack/1.1/support-matrix/)
* [Documentation site index](/helion/openstack/1.1/siteindex/)
* For definitions of key terms, see the [HP Helion OpenStack Glossary](/helion/openstack/1.1/glossary/)
* For detailed REST API information, [use the links on the Services Overview page](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/). 

There's a lot of information out there to help you get going with your services. We recommend you browse through the [site index](/helion/openstack/1.1/siteindex/) for a full list of the technical content pages available on the site.

**Note:** HP OpenStack Helion does not support an update utility to update from Helion 1.0 or Helion 1.01 to Helion 1.1. For help with updating from your current release to a newer release, contact [HP Customer Support](http://www.hpcloud.com/about/contact). 

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
