---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Compute Service: Troubleshooting"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/troubleshooting/compute/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: System Engineer
role3: Cloud Administrator
role4: Network Administrator
role5: Storage Engineer
Role6: Security Engineer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Compute Service: Troubleshooting

## Storing Metadata on a Configuration Drive {#configdrive}
<!--DOCS-950-->
The HP Helion OpenStack compute service can be configured to [write metadata to a special configuration drive](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/configdrive/) that contains information normally available through the metadata service. 

##Compute Databases Become Less Performant Over Time {#cleanup}
<!--DOCS-1183-->
When the Compute Service deletes an entity, such as an instance, it *marks* the relevant database rows as deleted, but does not actually *remove* those rows from the database. As the number of "soft-deleted" rows builds up, they begin to have a significantly detrimental impact on the database's performance.

When a row is marked as "deleted", two values are set.

- The `deleted_at` column is set to the date and time that the deletion occurred. 
- The `deleted` column is set to a non-zero value. (The value of the row's `id` column.)

The following SQL statements use these two markers to identify and remove database rows related to deleted entities.

1. Set the date and time to use for deletions. **Note**: All database rows pertaining to entities deleted *before* this date will be deleted. <pre>set @keep\_date = '2015-04-01 00:00';</pre>

1. Repeat the following statement until a small number of rows are deleted. <pre>delete from reservations where deleted != 0 limit 10000;</pre>

2. Repeat the following statement until a small number of rows are updated.<pre>update task\_log as t set t.deleted = t.id, t.deleted\_at = UTC\_TIMESTAMP() where t.created\_at < @keep\_date and t.deleted = 0 LIMIT 10000;
set foreign\_key\_checks=0;
set tx\_isolation='read-uncommitted';</pre>
4. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small.<pre>CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select i.uuid, i.deleted\_at from instances as i, block\_device\_mapping as u where i.uuid = u.instance\_uuid and i.deleted != 0 and u.deleted = 0) limit 10000;
update block\_device\_mapping as t, inst\_uuids as i set t.deleted = t.id, t.deleted\_at = i.deleted\_at where t.instance\_uuid = i.uuid;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
5. Delete rows that have been "soft deleted" prior to `keep_date`.<pre>
delete from aggregate\_hosts where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from aggregate\_metadata where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from aggregates where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from compute\_nodes  where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from services where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_groups where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_group\_member where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_group\_policy where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from task\_log where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from key\_pairs where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from quotas where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from quota\_usages where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from volume\_usage\_cache where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instances where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_faults where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_metadata where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from block\_device\_mapping where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_id\_mappings where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_actions where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_actions\_events where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_info\_caches where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
delete from instance\_system\_metadata where deleted != 0 and deleted\_at < @keep\_date limit 10000;
</pre>
6. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small.<pre>CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from block\_device\_mapping as u where u.instance\_uuid not in (select uuid from instances where uuid = u.instance\_uuid)) limit 10000;
delete u from block\_device\_mapping u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
7. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small.<pre>
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from instance\_actions as u where u.instance\_uuid not in (select uuid from instances where uuid = u.instance\_uuid)) limit 10000;
delete u from instance\_actions u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
8. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small.<pre>
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from instance\_system\_metadata as u where u.instance\_uuid not in (select uuid from instances where uuid = u.instance\_uuid)) limit 10000;
delete u from instance\_system\_metadata u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
8. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small.<pre>
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from volume\_usage\_cache as u where u.instance\_uuid not in (select uuid from instances where uuid = u.instance\_uuid)) limit 10000;
delete u from volume\_usage\_cache u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
9. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small. <pre>
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from instance\_id\_mappings as u where u.uuid not in (select uuid from instances where uuid = u.uuid)) limit 10000;
delete u from instance\_id\_mappings u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;</pre>
10. Repeat the following three statements until the number of rows selected is small. <pre>CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE IF NOT EXISTS inst\_uuids as (select u.id from instance\_actions\_events as u where u.action\_id not in (select id from instance\_actions where id = u.action\_id)) limit 10000;
delete u from instance\_actions\_events u, inst\_uuids i where i.id = u.id;
drop table inst\_uuids;
</pre>

