---
layout: default
title: "What's New in HP Helion OpenStack and Development Platform"
product: commercial.ga
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/whatsnew
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 
role1: none
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# What's New in HP Helion OpenStack&#174; and Development Platform in 1.1

## HP Helion OpenStack 

The following features have been added to HP Helion OpenStack 1.1:

**OpenStack Juno support** <br />All of the [HP Helion OpenStack services](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/overview/#OpenStack) have been updated to [OpenStack Juno](http://www.openstack.org/software/juno/).

**HP Helion OpenStack Metering services** <br />The [HP Helion OpenStack Telemetry and Reporting service](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/reporting/overview/) leverages the OpenStack Ceilometer metering service. The Metering Operations service takes specified measurements of both physical and virtual resources, including physical servers and network devices such as switches and firewalls. The service employs filters to avoid high loads of inessential data on shared resources. <!--HPM24-->

**AppArmor profiles enabled for Compute nodes** <br />AppArmor proactively protects the operating system and applications from external or internal threats, including zero-day attacks, by enforcing good behavior and preventing even unknown application flaws from being exploited. <!--HPM27-->

**Additional Components in Centralized Logging** <br />[Centralized logging support](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/logging/overview/) has now been added for the following additional components: <!--HPM28-->

- HAProxy
- Syslog
- Keepalived 

**Windows Validation as a Guest O/S on KVM** <br />HP Helion OpenStack 1.1 has achieved [Microsoft Server Virtualization Validation Program](http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/svvp/) (SVVP) approval.  As such, HP Helion OpenStack is a validated and supported virtual environment for Windows Server 2012 R2, 2012, 2008 R2, and 2008.  <!--HPM-29--> For information on the SVVP program, see Windows Server Catalog [Server Virtualization Validation Program](http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/svvp/).

For information on creating and deploying a Microsoft Windows Server that is Microsoft SVVP compliant on HP Helion OpenStack as a Nova compute VM, see [How to Build a Microsoft Windows Server Guest Image for HP Helion OpenStack](/helion/openstack/1.1/create-deploy/certified-microsoft-windows/guest-image/).  <!--DOCS-917--> Microsoft can provide technical support to customers with licensed Windows Server Operating Systems that are deployed as Nova compute VMs.

**Swift diagnostic checks** <br />New diagnostics checks have been implemented for [Swift clusters](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/object/overview/). Diagnostic messages are sent to the [Icinga](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/object/swift/replica-status/) service. <!--HPM15-->

**Improved recovery time**<br /> When a virtual IP is moved from one to another overcloud controller in the system, the new controller will become available in approximately one minute. <!--HPM121-->

**Ceph Firefly Storage Solution Integration** <br /> Ceph provides a unified, scalable and stable storage solution for the management of Helion OpenStack Image service (Glance), Compute (Nova Boot Volumes) service, and Volume Storage (Cinder persistent Volumes) service. It also supports user backup and archive workloads to the Object (Swift) API service writing to the same unified Ceph storage platform. <!--hpm30-->

**Multipath Support for 3PAR**<br /> HP Helion OpenStack now supports multipathing for network redundancy. Multipathing helps maintain a constant connection between an ESXi host and its storage. See [Configuring Multipath for 3PAR](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/3par/multipath/).<!--HPM121-->

**Transport Layer Security (TLS) support** <br />HP Helion OpenStack now supports TLS protocols to protect internal traffic for Overcloud OpenStack API and endpoints. <!--HPM16-->

**HP Helion OpenStack Identity service** <br />The Identity service, based on OpenStack Keystone V3 provides one-stop authentication, including Identity, Token, Catalog and Policy services. See [Identity Service Overview](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/identity/overview/). While Keystone elements have been upgraded to v3, Keystone V2 is still supported.<!--hpm31-->

**Fibre Channel Zone Manager support** <br />The OpenStack Fibre Channel Zone Manager creates the necessary Fibre Channel zones during an attach of a Block Storage (Cinder) volume. Brocade Fibre Channel Zone Driver performs zoning operations via SSH. See [Configuring Fibre Channel Zone Manager](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/volume/Fibre/).<!--HMP32-->

**Enable Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) support for Gen8 and Gen9 HP Servers** - UEFI is industry standard set of interfaces between the system firmware, the operating system, and between various components of the system firmware delivers enhanced security benefits for the HP ProLiant Gen8 and Gen9 Server family. UEFI is meant to replace the Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) firmware interface. For more information, see [HP Unified Extensible Firmware Interface](http://www8.hp.com/us/en/products/server-software/product-detail.html?oid=6935826).<!--HPM12-->

**New Horizon Dashboard functionality** - The [HP Helion OpenStack DNSaaS service](/helion/openstack/1.1/install/dnsaas/) functionality is now accessible through the [Horizon dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/horizon/).

**Flexible control plane implemented** <br />
Allows an HP Helion OpenStack installation on a mix of VMs and physical nodes, support for multiple KVM hosts, and a mechanism for specifying which host a VMs is created on. All HA scenarios are still supported. Note that the flexible control plane has been implemented in this release for evaluation and feedback purposes only and is not supported as part of a production environment. <!--hpm441-->

**Compute Service Configuration Drive** - The HP Helion OpenStack compute service can be configured to [write metadata to a special configuration drive](/helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/configdrive) that contains information normally available through the metadata service. 

## HP Helion Development Platform

**Updated Command Line Client** <br />
The [ALS command line client](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/reference) (cfmgmt.exe) has been updated to provide more options.

**Additional ALS Client Commands**<br />
More [commands](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/) are now available for managing your ALS deployment from the command line.

- [Control](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/control)
- [Feature Flags](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/flags)
- [Security Groups](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/securitygroups)
- [Space Quotas](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/spacequotas) 

**Ruby CLI No Longer Supported** <br />The Ruby CLI (unix_cli) is no longer supported. Users are advised to consider the OpenStack Python CLI as an alternative.