---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack: Verifying the Install Using Embedded Tests"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/install/tempest-tests/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Administrator
role2: Storage Architect
authors: Michael B, Andrea F,


---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>


<p style="font-size: small;"> &#9664; <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/prereqs/#envars">Prerequisites | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install/overview/	"> &#9650; Installation Overview</a> </p> 

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Verifying the Install Using Embedded Tests

Tempest is a set of integration tests for OpenStack API validation, Scenarios, and other specific tests to be run against a live OpenStack cluster.

A version of the upstream [Tempest](http://docs.openstack.org/developer/tempest/) integration tests  is pre-deployed in the HP Helion OpenStack undercloud. 

You can use these embedded tests to verify if the deployed overcloud is functional.

* [Running the tests](#running)
* [Viewing test results](#results)
* [Customizing the test run](#custom)
* [Known issues](#issues)
* [Known failures](#fail)

For more information on running Tempest tests, see [Tempest - The OpenStack Integration Test Suite](https://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/tempest/tree/README.rst). 
**Important:** Running the tests requires access the overcloud identity admin credentials; Tempest creates and deletes test accounts and test resources for test purposes. 

In certain cases Tempest might fail to clean-up some of test resources after a test is complete, for example in case of failed tests. 


## Running the tests ## {#running}

To run Tempest, edit the Tempest configuration file that is included in the installation package. The configuration file describes where to find the various services and other testing behavior switches.

To run the default set of Tempest tests:

1. Login to the seed VM. 

2. SSH into the undercloud node:

		ssh heat-admin@${UNDERCLOUD_IP}
		sudo -i

3. Source the overcloud admin credentials, activate the virtual environment and start the tests:

		source ~root/overcloud.stackrc
		source /opt/stack/venvs/openstack/bin/activate
		run-tempest

Optionally, you can [customize Tempest to run specific tests](#custom). 

## Viewing test results ## {#results}

Tempest is deployed under `/opt/stack/tempest`. During a test run, test results are displayed on the console. A detailed log file is written to `/opt/stack/tempest/tempest.log`.

The results are also stored in the `testrespository` database. 

To access the results after the run:

1. Login to the seed VM. 

2. SSH into the undercloud node:

		ssh heat-admin@${UNDERCLOUD_IP}
		sudo -i

3. Change to the `tempest` directory and list test results:

		cd /opt/stack/tempest
		testr last

See [Test Repository users manual](https://testrepository.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) for more details on how to manage the test result repository.

## Customizing the test run ## {#custom}

There are several ways available to customize which tests will be executed.

* [Run tests for a specific service](#service)
* [Run tests for specific services and exclude specific features](#services)
* [Run tests matching a series of white and blacklists](#list)

### Run tests for a specific service {#service} 

You can run tests against a specific service, such as  Compute, Networking, or Identity.

1. Login to the seed VM. 

2. SSH into the undercloud node:

		ssh heat-admin@${UNDERCLOUD_IP}
		sudo -i

3. Use the following command to specify that tests run on the a specific service.

		OS_TESTPATH=./tempest/{service} run-tempest

	Where `{service}` is the name of the service, such as `api`, `compute`, `identity`, or `network`.

	For example, execute the following command to run the Tempest test against the Nova (Compute service) API:

		OS_TESTPATH=./tempest/api/compute run-tempest

### Run tests for specific services and exclude specific features {#services}

Tempest allow you to test specific services and features using `tempest.conf.sample` configuration file. 

A sample configuration file with inline documentation is deployed under `/opt/stack/tempest/etc/`.

1. Login to the seed VM. 

2. SSH into the undercloud node:

		ssh heat-admin@${UNDERCLOUD_IP}
		sudo -i

3. Open the `/opt/stack/tempest/etc/tempest.conf.sample` file.

3. To test specific service, edit the `[service_available]` section :

	Clear the comment character `#` and set a line to `true` to test that service or `false` to not test that service.

	**Example:**

		cinder = true
		neutron = false

4. To test specific features, edit any of the `*_feature_enabled` sections to enable or disable tests on specific features of a specific service. 

	[volume-feature-enabled]
	[compute-feature-enabled]
	[identity-feature-enabled]
	[image-feature-enabled]
	[network-feature-enabled]
	[object-storage-feature-enabled]

	Clear the comment character `#` and set a line to `true` to run a test or `false` to not run that test.

	**Example**

		Is the v2 identity API enabled (boolean value)
		api_v2 = true
		Is the v3 identity API enabled (boolean value)
		api_v3 = false

5. Source the overcloud admin credentials, activate the virtual environment and start the tests:

		source ~root/overcloud.stackrc
		source /opt/stack/venvs/openstack/bin/activate
		run-tempest

Note: You can exclude tests for [features that are not available and test not compatible](#exclude).

### Run tests matching a series of white and blacklists {#list} 

You can run tests against specific scenarios by editing the `tests2skip.py` file. 

Use the `tests2skip.py` file to whitelist a test or  blacklist a test: 

- lines starting with # or empty are ignored
- lines starting with `+` are whitelisted
- lines starting with `-` are blacklisted
- lines not matching any of the above conditions are blacklisted

If whitelist is empty, all available tests are fed to blacklist. If blacklist is empty, all tests from whitelist are returned.

Whitelist is applied first. The blacklist is executed against the set of tests returned by the whitelist.

To run whitelist and blacklist tests:

1. Login to the seed VM. 

2. SSH into the undercloud node:

		ssh heat-admin@${UNDERCLOUD_IP}
		sudo -i

3. Edit the tests2skip.py file

Documentation on the format of white and black-lists is available at http://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/tripleo-image-elements/tree/elements/tempest/tests2skip.py#n24. 


**Example**

The following entries run API tests, exclude tests that are less relevant for deployment validation, such as negative, admin, cli and thirdparty (EC2) tests:

		+tempest\.api\.*
		*[Aa]dmin.*
		*[Nn]egative.*
		- tempest\.cli.*
		- tempest\.thirdparty\.*

## Known issues ## {#issues}

The following failing tests can be excluded from the test run by adding the following to the `tests2skip.txt file`:

### Exclude tests for features that are not available and test not compatible {#exclude}

	tempest\.api\.compute\.certificates\.*
	tempest\.api\.compute\.servers.test_disk_config\.*
	tempest\.api\.network\.test_fwaas_extensions\.*
	tempest\.api\.network\.test_vpnaas_extensions\.*
	tempest\.api\.network\.test_load_balancer\.*
	tempest\.api\.image\.v1\.test_image\.CreateRegisterImagesTest\.test_register_http_image
	tempest\.api\.image\.v1\.test_images\.CreateRegisterImagesTest\.test_register_remote_image
	tempest.api\.network\.test_metering_extensions\.MeteringTestJSON
	tempest\.api\.network\.test_metering_extensions\.MeteringIpV6TestJSON
	tempest\.api\.compute\.test_live_block_migration.LiveBlockMigrationTestJSON\.test_live_block_migration
	tempest\.api\.compute\.floating_ips\.test_list_floating_ips\.FloatingIPDetailsTestJSON\.test_list_floating_ip_pools

## Known failures ## {#fail}

The following tests will result in failure using the installed Tempest library. These known failures can be fixed by installing the `tempest-lib>=0.2.0` OpenStack Functional Testing Library.

See [tempest-lib 0.2.0](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tempest-lib/0.2.0) for information on downloading the library.

	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_container_staticweb\.StaticWebTest\.test_web_index      
	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_container_staticweb\.StaticWebTest\.test_web_listing_css
	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_container_services\.ContainerTest\.test_update_container_metadata_with_delete_metadata
	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_container_services\.ContainerTest\.test_update_container_metadata_with_delete_metadata_key
	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_object_slo\.ObjectSloTest\.test_upload_manifest
	tempest\.api\.object_storage\.test_container_sync_middleware\.ContainerSyncMiddlewareTest\.test_container_synchronization


----
