---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Working With StoreVirtual Backends"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/
product: commercial.ga
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Systems Administrator 
role2: Cloud Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Network Administrator 
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
role8: Network Engineer 
authors: Paul F

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p>-->


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Working With StoreVirtual Backends
[See the Helion OpenStack 1.0 version of this page](/helion/openstack/undercloud/oc/config/storevirtual/)

Once you register the StoreVirtual clusters as per your requirements, you can use the overcloud option in the Horizon undercloud dashboard for the following tasks:

* [Add backend](#add-backend) (required)

* [Expand backend](#expand-backend) (optional)

* [Shrink backend](#shrink-backend) (optional)

* [Delete backend](#delete-backend) (optional)

* [Generate configuration](#generate-config) (required)

* [Update Overcloud](#update-overcloud) (required)

* [Next Steps](#next-steps)


### Add backend {#add-backend}

This option allows you to add a backend. Adding a StoreVirtual cluster as a backend, moves the cluster to the 'reserved' state. This means that the cluster cannot be removed from the cloud inventory when Cinder is configured to use this cluster as storage backend.

To add a backend, do the following:

1. In the Configure Cloud page, click the **StoreVitual Backends** Tab.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-add-backend.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Configure Cloud Page (opens in a new window)</a>

2. Click **Add Backend** at the top to open the StoreVirtual Volume Backend page.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-add-backendoption.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">StoreVirtual Volume Backend Page (opens in a new window)</a>

3. In the **Volume Backend Name** box, enter the name for the backend.

4. From the **Available StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box, select the cluster(s).

5. Click &rarr; to move the cluster to the **Selected StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box. 

5.  (Optional) Click **Choose All** displayed below the **Available StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box to select all the clusters . 

7. (Optional) Click **Remove All** displayed below the **Selected StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box or select the cluster(s) and click &larr;to move the cluster(s) back to **Available StoreVirtual Choices** box. 

8. Click **Add**.<br />On successful addition of backend, the backend displays in the Backend Mapping table in the Configure Cloud page.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-add-backendoption3.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Backend Displays in the Configure Cloud Page (opens in a new window)</a>


### Expand backend {#expand-backend}

Expand option allocates additional clusters to an existing backend. You can select the required clusters from the list of registered clusters and add them to a backend that has already been configured.

To expand a backend, do the following:

1. In the Configure Cloud page, click **StoreVirtual Backends** Tab to activate it.<br /> The page displays a list of backends.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-expand-backend.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Expand Backend Option (opens in a new window)</a>

2. Click **Expand Backend** against the backend that you want to expand.<br /> Expand StoreVirtual Volume Backend page is displayed.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-expand-backendoption1.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Expand Backend Page with Update Option(opens in a new window)</a>

3. From the **Available StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box, select the Cluster.

4. Click &rarr; to move the cluster(s)to the **Selected StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box.

5.  (Optional) Click **Choose All** displayed below the **Available StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box to select and move all the clusters to the **Selected StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box. 

7. (Optional) Click **Remove All** displayed below the **Selected StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box or select the cluster(s) and click &larr;to move the clusters back to **Available StoreVirtual Cluster Choices** box. . 

8. Click **Update**.<br />On successful update, the number of clusters mapped to the backend is updated and displays in the Backend Mapping table in the Configure Cloud page.<br />
	<!---<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-add-backendoption1.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Expand Backend Page with Update Option (opens in a new window)</a>-->

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

### Shrink backend {#shrink-backend}

Shrinking removes the clusters from the backend which are allocated to your cloud. Shrinking the only available StoreVirtual cluster in the backend will delete the backend. To shrink the backend, do the following:

1. In the Configure Cloud page, click **StoreVirtual Backends** Tab to activate it.<br /> The page displays a list of backends.<br />

2. Click **More** drop-down list against the Volume Backend for which you want to reduce the cluster(s) and select **Shrink Backend**.<br /> Configure StoreVirtual Backend page is displayed.

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-shrink-backend.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Shrink Backend Option (opens in a new window)</a>

3.  From the **Existing StoreVirtual Clusters** box, select the cluster(s).

4.  Click &rarr; to move the cluster(s)to the **Removed StoreVirtual Clusters** box.

4. (Optional) Click **Remove All** displayed below the **Existing StoreVirtual Cluster(s)** box to move all the cluster(s) to **Removed StoreVirtual Clusters** box.

5. (Optional) Click **Select All** displayed below the **Removed StoreVirtual Clusters** box or select the cluster(s) and click &larr;to move the cluster(s) back to **Existing StoreVirtual Clusters** box.

6. Click **Update**.<br />On successful update, the number of clusters mapped to the backend is updated and displays in the Backend Mapping table in the Configure Cloud page.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-shrink-backend1.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Shrink Backend Page with Update Option (opens in a new window)</a>

###Delete backend {#delete-backend}

This option removes the backend from the cloud.

**Note**: Before you delete a backend, detach the volumes from the VM instance, as this backend will not be available once it is deleted.

1. In the Configure Cloud page, click **StoreVirtual Backends** Tab to activate it.<br /> The page displays a list of backends.<br />

2. Click **More** drop-down list against the Volume Backend which you want to delete and select **Delete volume backend**.<br /> A confirmation dialog box is displayed.

3. Click **Delete volume backend** to delete or **Cancel** to cancel the process.

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

### Generate configuration {#generate-config}
Download the Cinder configuration for your cloud once you have created the backend.

To generate a configuration file, do the following:

1. In the Configure Cloud page, click **StoreVirtual Backends** Tab to activate it.<br /> The page displays a list of backends.<br />

	<a href="javascript:window.open('/content/documentation/media/undercloud-storevirtual-generate-config.png','_blank','toolbar=no,menubar=no,resizable=yes,scrollbars=yes')">Generate Configuration Option (opens in a new window)</a>

3. Click **Generate Config** displayed at the top of the page to display Download StoreVirtual Config page.<br /> The configuration file downloads automatically. 

3. (Optional) Click **Download StoreVirtual Config** link to download the file if the file does not automatically download .<br /> A dialog box is displayed.<br />

4. Click **OK** to download and save the file.<br />Once you download the configuration file, you can proceed to update the overcloud configuration.


### Update Overcloud {#update-overcloud}

To update your overcloud with the changes, do the following:

1. SSH to the Seed as root from KVM host using the IP address of seed VM as defined in the environment variables file:

		# ssh root@<seed_VM_IP_address>

2. View the list of files.

		# ls
	<!--3. Copy the overcloud template configuration file to `/root/overcloud-config.json` if `/root/overcloud-config.json` is absent.  
	    # cp /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/ee-config.json /root/overcloud-config.json
	5. Apply the configuration.
        # source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh /root/overcloud-config.json
	4. Edit and update the `/root/overcloud-config.json` and add the JSON snippet obtained from [generating the configuration file](#generate-config).Ensure the JSON file format is unbroken. A sample of the file is given below:
	2. Edit and update the `tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json` and add the JSON snippet obtained from [generating the configuration file](#generate-config).Ensure the JSON file format is unbroken. A sample of the file is given below:--> 
3. Append the appropriate environment variables file with the JSON snippet(obtained from [Generate Config](#generate-config)). Ensure the JSON file format is unbroken. A sample of the file is given below:

		{
		  "cloud_type": "KVM",
		  "compute_scale": 1,
		  "vsa_scale": 0,
		  "vsa_ao_scale": 0,
		  "so_swift_storage_scale": 0,
		  "so_swift_proxy_scale": 0,
		  "bridge_interface": "eth0",
		  "ntp": {
		    "overcloud_server": "",
		    "undercloud_server": ""
		  },
		  "vsa": {
		    "DEFAULT": {
		      "enabled_backends": [
		        "cluster_a6487f02-447e-11e4-a128-80c16e21d1f0"
		      ]
		    },
		    "cluster_a6487f02-447e-11e4-a128-80c16e21d1f0": {
		      "hplefthand_iscsi_chap_enabled": "true",
		      "hplefthand_password": "password",
		      "hplefthand_clustername": "cluster1",
		      "volume_backend_name": "LHN_backend",
		      "volume_driver": "cinder.volume.drivers.san.hp.hp_lefthand_iscsi.HPLeftHandISCSIDriver",
		      "hplefthand_api_url": "https://192.0.2.40:8081/lhos",
		      "hplefthand_debug": "false",
		      "hplefthand_username": "test"
		    }

4. Source the environment variables from the JSON Environment Variables file created during initial installation.<!--- based on your configuration and the details of the StoreVirtual scale specified in the `/root/overcloud-config.json`-->

		# source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/<environment variables file name>  
		
	For example

		# source tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_load_config.sh tripleo/configs/kvm-custom-ips.json


5. Launch install script to update the overcloud.

		# bash -x /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/scripts/hp_ced_installer.sh --update-overcloud |& tee update-bv1.log


## Next Steps {#next-steps}

To create a Volume Type and map it to a given backend for Cinder using the Horizon overcloud dashboard, go to: [Mapping the StoreVirtual Backend to a Volume Type](/helion/openstack/1.1/map/volumetype/) or Cinder CLI.


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
