<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5681">
<title>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> Release Notes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/commercial.release-notes.GA.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/release-notes/GA/--></p>
<!--

-->
<p>Thank you for your interest in HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> This document provides an overview of the features contained within HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> version 1.0, including known issues and workarounds, and where to find further information on the product release:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5681/features">Features in HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm></xref>
</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5681/For-Further-Information">For Further Information</xref>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="features"> <title>Features in HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm></title>
<p>
<b><tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Juno Services</b> - The full set of standard <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> services is available for you to use: Nova, Swift, Cinder, Neutron, Glance, Keystone, Horizon, Heat, and TripleO (Ironic) for deployment.</p>
<p>
<b>TripleO (Ironic)</b> - Using <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> technology for deploying <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> services in a fully automated manner resulting in a baremetal control plane deployed in a highly available configuration.</p>
<p>
<b>LogStash/ElasticSearch</b> - Enhancing security and supportability of the product by offering centralized logging.</p>
<p>
<b>Icinga</b> - Providing infrastructure monitoring ensuring the health of the cloud.</p>
<p>
<b>HP StoreVirtual VSA</b> - The VSA is used as the default fault-tolerant, software-defined storage backend for Cinder, and provides easy deployment on KVM nodes meeting on-demand scale-out requirements of cloud storage without sacrificing performance.</p>
<p>
<b>Support for VMWare ESX</b> - Makes ESX host onboarding and management easier and lets you setup the ESX proxy node during installation of the overcloud.</p>
<p>
<b>HP Virtual Cloud Networking (VCN) Application</b> - Enables you to create networks, subnets and ports, as well as security groups and security group rules for your ESX clusters using OVSvApp.</p>
</section>
<section id="known-issues"> <title>Known Issues in this Release</title>
<p>The following are the known issues for HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm></p>
<p>
  <b>Operations</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>If you determine that your VM seed has not started correctly when you execute the <codeph>hp_ced_start_seed</codeph> script, run the script a second time to ensure you start the seed.</li>
<li>
<p>If, for some reason, the overcloud controller is rebooted, the VMs might be in an ERROR state. Execute the following commands to restart the services and remove the error(s):</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>$ sudo service nova-compute restart
$ sudo service nova-scheduler restart
$ sudo service nova-conductor restart
$ sudo service neutron-openvswitch-agent restart
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>In some instances, the centralized logging feature does not function after the  product installation. If this occurs, repeat the following steps on the overcloud controller and all compute nodes</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>service rsyslog restart
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>Other Issues</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li>When you resize an instance of Nova, it produces an error.</li>
<li>Volume backups that are created in one project are accessible to all projects.</li>
<li>Changing the user settings in a non-admin role affects all users across all projects.</li>
<li>An admin is unable to retrieve object details in an Object Store.</li>
<li>A Kernel Panic error occurs when a user employs SSH to log in to a virtual machine and attempts to connect to an IP address external to HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm></li>
<li>The update overcloud process fails intermittently and occurs when an OLD_BUILD value is set to NULL instead of the correct build number from ce_env.json.</li>
<li>If a set of baremetal servers differ in specifications (such as memory or disk capacity), the installation fails.</li>
<li>When a controller node crashes, it must be rebooted to return to its operational state.</li>
<li>The installation process can fail if the user is attempting to add more than 2000GB (2TB) to the CSV file (even if the baremetal server has more space).</li>
<li>The Helion Core installation process leaves behind a shared private network defined.</li>
<li>When the VIP is moved to a new controller, the <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> services stop responding to any CLI commands.</li>
<li>Nova does not handle or recover from RabbitMQ Server process failure.</li>
<li>The keepalived processes do not restart automatically when they are killed.</li>
<li>The HAProxy does not automatically restart when it is killed.</li>
<li>A user can register but cannot update a vCenter through the UI. </li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="For-Further-Information"> <title>For Further Information</title>
<p>For additional information about HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Cloud Software, and the HP Helion Support Center:</p>
<ul>
<li>
  <xref href="1.1commercial.index.dita" >HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> Documentation web site</xref>: Provides information on topics such as installation and configuration, FAQs, and applications for all of the HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> product offerings.</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://www.openstack.org/" scope="external" format="html" ><tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> web site</xref>: Provides information on computing, networking, and storage in <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> various programs such as TripleO, and the <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> community.</li>
<li>
<xref href="http://us-support.external.hp.com/portal/site/hpsc/public" scope="external" format="html" >HP Support Center</xref>: Provides a way to report issues with HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="legal-notices-disclaimer"> <title>Legal Notices and Disclaimer</title>
<!--See the [HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> Open Source and Third-Party Software License Agreements](/helion/openstack/commercial-3rd-party-license-agreements/).-->
<p><tm tmtype="reg">Linux</tm> is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries.</p>
<p>
<b>HP <tm tmtype="reg">Helion OpenStack</tm> Warranty</b>: 
The programs included with the Debian Host Linux system are free software. The exact license terms for each program are described in the individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright. Debian Host Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by applicable law.</p>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic5681"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
<section id="openstack-trademark-attribution"> <title><tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Trademark Attribution</title>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
