<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3118">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.0: Updating OVSvApp on ESX hosts</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Installation and Configuration</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/commercial.update-101-ovsvapp.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/update/ovsvapp/101/--></p>
<!--

-->
<p>To update the OVSvApp from version 1.0 to version 1.01:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Make sure that DRS is enabled on the cluster on which 1.01 version of OVSvApp will be installed:</p>

<p>a. In the vSphere client, select the cluster in the vSphere Client inventory.</p>

<p>b. Right-click and select <b>Edit Settings</b>.</p>

<p>c. In the left panel, select General, and make sure <b>Turn On vSphere DRS</b> is selected.</p>

<p>d. Click <b>OK</b>.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> DRS safeguards tenant VM traffic from being black-holed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Disable vMotion from vSwitch properties. This won't let DRS to bring back VMs on the host when the host is brought back from maintenance mode as in Step 4.</p>

<p>a. In the vSphere client, select the host in the vSphere Client inventory.</p>

<p>b. On the <b>Configuration</b> tab, select <b>Networking</b>.</p>

<p>c. Click V<b>irtual Switch</b> to display the virtual switches for the host.</p>

<p>d. Locate the virtual switch that has a VMkernel port group configured for vMotion, and click the <b>Properties</b> link.</p>

<p>e. On the <b>Ports</b> tab, select the port group that is configured for vMotion and click <b>Edit</b>.</p>

<p>f. On the <b>General</b> tab, clear the <b>Enabled</b> option for vMotion.</p>

<p>g. Click <b>OK</b> to close the port group <b>Properties</b> dialog, and click <b>Close</b> to close the vSwitch <b>Properties</b> dialog.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Place the ESX host on which the 1.01 version of OVSvApp will be installed into maintenance mode :</p>

<p>In the vSphere Client, right click on the ESX host and select <b>Enter Maintenance mode</b>.</p>

<p>All virtual machines on the host are migrated to different hosts when the host enters maintenance mode.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Exit maintenance mode.</p>

<p>In the vSphere Client, right click on the ESX host and select <b>Exit Maintenance mode</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Delete the OVSvApp appliance:</p>

<p>a. Right-click the <b>OVSvApp VM</b>.</p>

<p>b. Select <b>Delete</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the controller, execute the following command to obtain the <codeph>ovsvapp_agent_id</codeph>.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>neutron agent-list 
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>Note the ID.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the controller, execute the following command to remove the entry from <codeph>neutron agent-list</codeph>.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>neutron agent-delete &lt;ovsvapp_agent_id&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Where:</b>
</p>

<p>
<codeph>&lt;ovsvapp_agent_id&gt;</codeph> is the OVSvApp ID obtained.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install 1.01 version of OVSvApp VM on that ESX host using the <codeph>add_new_hosts</codeph> variable under the <codeph>new-host-addition</codeph> section in <codeph>ovs_vapp.ini</codeph> file</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>add_new_hosts=True
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Invoke the installer using the following commands:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo su
cd /hp-ovsvapp/src/installer/
python invoke_vapp_installer.py
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The installation log file will be located at <codeph>/hp-ovsvapp/log/ovs_vapp.log</codeph>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Re-enable vMotion on vSwitch properties of that ESX host.</p>

<p>a. In the vSphere Client, right click on the ESX host.</p>

<p>b. Click the <b>Configuration</b> tab.</p>

<p>c. In the <b>Hardware</b> section, click <b>Networking</b>.</p>

<p>d. Click <b>Properties</b> for the virtual switch where a VMkernel port has been configured.</p>

<p>e. In the dialog box that opens, select <codeph>vmkernel</codeph> in the <b>Ports</b> tab and click <b>Edit</b>.</p>

<p>f. Select <b>Enabled</b> next to vMotion.</p>

<p>g. Click <b>OK</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic3118"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
