<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_r3k_v2c_jt">
  <title>Allocating Proxy, Account, Container (PAC) Servers</title>
  <body>
    <p>A proxy, account, and container (PAC) server is a node that runs the swift-proxy,
      swift-account and swift-container services. It is used to respond to API requests and to store
      account and container data. PAC node does not store Object data.</p>
    <p>This section describes the procedure to allocate Proxy, Account, Container  (PAC) Servers
      during the <b>initial</b> deployment of the system. </p>
    <p><?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,255,0"?>Once the system has been
      deployed, a different procedure is used to add additional Swift object
      servers.<?oxy_custom_end?> - &lt;<b>What is that procedure? can user do it in Beta2 ?</b>></p>
    <section>
      <title>Procedure to Allocate Swift PAC servers</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to allocate to allocate PAC Servers:</p>
    </section>
    <ul>
      <li>Verify if the example input model already contains a suitable server role. The server
        roles are usually described in <codeph>data/server_roles.yml file</codeph>. If the server
        role is not described, you must add a suitable server role as described in <i><xref
            href="allocating_server.dita#topic_tq1_xt5_dt/create-server-role">Creating Server Role
            for Swift Object Servers</xref></i>. As part of this process you will also allocate
        drives to store object data as described in <i><xref
            href="allocating_disk_drives.dita#allocating-disk-drives">Allocating Disk
          Drives.</xref></i></li>
      <li>Verify if the example input model has assigned a cluster to Swift proxy, account,
        container servers. It is usually mentioned in <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> file.
        If the cluster is not assigned then add a suitable cluster as described in <i><xref
            href="creating-pac-cluster.dita#topic_rvj_21c_jt">Creating an Proxy, Account, Container
            Cluster</xref></i></li>
      <li>Identity the physical servers and their IP address and other detailed information.<ul
          id="ul_tzf_pqb_jt">
          <li>If you use Cobbler, you add these details the baremetal-servers list (usually in
              <codeph>data/baremetalConfig.yml</codeph>). Otherwise, you add these details to
            servers list (usually in <codeph>data/server.yml</codeph>)</li>
          <li>As with all servers, you must also verify and/or modify the server-groups information
            (usually in <codeph>data/server_groups.yml</codeph>)</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
    <p>The only part of this process that is <b>unique</b> to Swift is the allocation of disk drives
      for use by the object ring as described in  <i><xref
          href="allocating_disk_drives.dita#allocating-disk-drives">Allocating Disk
        Drives.</xref></i></p>
  </body>
</topic>
