<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jzk_q1c_jt">
  <title>Creating an Object Server Resource Nodes</title>
  <body>
    <p>You must identify the control plane and node type/role when creating a resource node for
      Swift object servers. </p>
    <ul id="ul_r4r_r1c_jt">
      <li>In the <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> file, identity the control plane that the
        object serves are associated with. </li>
      <li>Identity the node type/role used by the Swift Object servers. In the following example,
          <b>ROLE_SWOBJ</b> is mentioned as server-role.<p>Add an entry to the <b>resources</b> item
          in the <b>control-plane</b> as
        follows:</p><codeblock>control-planes:
- name: ccp
  region: region1
  . . .
  resources:
  . . .
  - name: swobj
    resource-prefix: swobj
    server-role: ROLE-SWOBJ
    allocation-policy: strict
    min-count: 0
    service-components:
    - ntp-client
    - swift-object
 </codeblock></li>
    </ul>
    <p><b>Service Components</b></p>
    <p>A Swift object server requires the following service components:</p>
    <ul id="ul_fyb_51c_jt">
      <li>ntp-client</li>
      <li>swift-object</li>
      <li>swift-client is optionally added. This installs the <codeph>python-swiftclient</codeph>
        package on the server.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Resource nodes do not have a member count attribute. So the number of servers allocated is
      similar to the number found with a matching server role.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
