<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_d3v_4tz_4t">
  <title>Resetting Builder Files</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <note>You must reset the builder files during the initial deployment process (only). This
        process should be used only when you want to restart a deploy from the scratch. If you reset
        the builder files after completing your initial deployment then you are at a risk of loosing
        critical system data.<p>To reset the builder files from scratch, do the following:<ul
            id="ul_otm_stz_4t">
            <li>You must know your Keystone region name. Each distinct Swift system uses a different
              Keystone region. If you have several Keystone regions and you are trying to return to
              the start state for region2, you do not want to delete the builder files of region1 as
              this is presumably running normally).</li>
            <li>Delete the builder files in the
                <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder-dir/region-&lt;region-name>/</codeph> directory. For
              example, for the region2 Keystone region, use this
                command:<codeblock>sudo rm /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/region-region2/*.builder</codeblock><note>If
                you have successfully deployed a system and accidentally delete the builder files,
                you can recover to the correct state using Recovering Builder Files
              process.</note></li>
          </ul></p></note>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
