<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_enj_cms_mt">
  <title>Object Storage Operations</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the various operational procedures performed by Swift.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Restart the Swift Object Storge Deployment </title>
      <p>The structure of ring is built in an incremental stages. When you modify a ring, the new
        ring uses the state of the old ring as a basis for the new ring. Rings are stored in the
        builder file. The <b>swiftlm-ring-supervisor</b> stores builder files in the<codeph>
          /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir directory/</codeph> on the Ring-Builder node. The builder files
        are named &lt;ring-name> builder. Prior versions of the builder files are stored in the
          <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/backups</codeph> directory.</p>
      <p><!--<?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,60,255"?>The structure of a ring is built in incremental stages. When you modify a ring, the new ring is uses the state of the old ring as a basis for the new ring. This state is kept in a file called the builder file. The swiftlm-ring-supervisor stores builder files in the /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir directory/ on the Ring-Builder node.The builder files are named &lt;ring-name&gt;.builder. Prior versions of the builder files are stored in the /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/backups directory.<?oxy_custom_end?>--></p>
      <p>Generally, you use an existing builder file as the basis for changes to a ring. However, at
        initial deployment, when you create a ring there will be no builder file. Instead, the first
        step in the process is to build a builder file. The deploy playbooks does this as a part of
        the deployment process. If you have already successfully deployed some of the system, the
        ring builder files will exist. </p>
      <p>Suppose you change your input model (for example, adding servers) now, the process assumes
        you are <i>modifying</i> a ring and behaves differently than while creating a ring from
        scratch. In such case the ring is not balanced. So, if the cloud model contains an error or
        you decide to make substantive changes, it is always advised to start from scratch and build
        rings from the scratch using procedure described in <xref
          href="swift_resetting_builder_file.dita#topic_d3v_4tz_4t">resetting builder</xref>
        files.</p>
      <!--<p> creating a ring from scratch, no builder file exists. Instead, the first step in the process is to build a builder file. The deploy playbooks do this for you as part of the deployment process. If you have already successfully deployed some of the system, the ring builder files will exist. If you now make changes to the input model (for example, adding servers), the process assumes you are <i>modifying</i> a ring and will behave differently than when it is creating a ring from scratch. Specifically, the rings might not be balanced. If the Cloud Model contains errors or you decide to make substantive changes, you may wish to start from scratch and build rings from scratch using the procedure described in "Resetting Builder Files".</p>-->
      <?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,60,255"?>
    </section>
    <p><?oxy_custom_end?>You can perform tha various operational procedure aas follows:<ul
        id="ul_rwy_ntz_4t">
        <li><xref href="swift_resetting_builder_file.dita#topic_d3v_4tz_4t">Resetting Builder
            Files</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="swift_recovering_builder_file.dita#topic_gbz_13t_mt">Recovering Builder
            Files</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="swift_first_proxy_server.dita#topic_rtc_s3t_mt">Identify the first Swift
            Proxy Server</xref></li>
      </ul><?oxy_custom_start type="oxy_content_highlight" color="255,60,255"?></p>
    <?oxy_custom_end?>
  </body>
</topic>
