<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_j2p_d1r_4t">
  <title>Adding New Node/Server</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the procedure to add new node(s)/swift object server to an existing
      system.</p>
    <p>To add a new node to your cloud, you will need to add it to <b>servers.yml</b>, and then run
      the scripts that update your cloud configuration. To begin, access the <b>servers.yml</b>
      file by checking out the git branch where you are required to make the changes:</p>
    <section>
      <title>Procedure to add a new node</title>
      <p>You must add a new node details in the <codeph>server.yml</codeph> file. </p>
      <p>Perform the following steps to add a new node:<ol id="ol_p4w_gbr_4t">
          <li><!--Log in to the deployer node.--> Get the<codeph> server.ym</codeph>l file stored in
            git:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data
git checkout site</codeblock></li>
          <li>Add the swift-object components in the resource-nodes section of the
              <codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph>
            file<!--, if you are adding a new node/swift object server to an entry-scale model.-->
            An example of <codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph> file is shown below: (<b>are there any
              other model also? or can we make this
            generic?</b>)<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2
  servers:

... 

      resource-nodes:
        - name: swobj
          resource-prefix: swobj
          server-role: ROLE-SWOBJ
          allocation-policy: strict
          min-count: 3
          service-components:
            - ntp-client
            - swift-object
            - swift-common</codeblock></li>
          <li>Add details of new node(s) to <codeph>server.yml</codeph> file. In the following
            example we are adding only one new server "cpn-0004". You can add multiple servers by
            providing the server details in the <codeph>server.yml</codeph>
            file.<codeblock>servers.yml

---
  product:
    version: 2
  servers:

... 

  - id: compute7
    ip-addr: 10.240.21.13
    role: ROLE-COMPUTE
    nic-mapping: HP_DL360_6PORT</codeblock></li>
          <li>Commit your
              changes<codeblock>git add -A
git commit -m "Add Node &lt;name>"</codeblock><note>Enter
              your commit message "Add Node &lt;name>"</note></li>
          <li>Run the configuration
            processor:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the following command to create a deployment
            directory.<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Use the following playbook to configure new
              node(s):<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&lt;extra_vars></codeblock><p>In
              the following example we have used server id as <b>compute 7</b> (mentioned in step
              4).<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=compute7</codeblock></p><note>You
              must use the server id as it appears in the <codeph>server.yml</codeph> file in the
              field &lt;extra_vars></note></li>
          <li>Run the following command. This command adds the compute server to the selected target
            nodes because you have specified the limit (<codeph>--limit</codeph>) option.  (<b>if we
              don’t specify the limit option then it gets added to all the nodes? Also if there are
              multiple compute server then do we run the same command as below? How do we separate
              the different compute server in the
            command?)</b><codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --limit <b>&lt;Name of the node> (is this correct. If not then please let me know the correct term to use as placeholder)</b></codeblock>In
            the following example, you have added a computer server to <b>hlm004-ccp-comp0007</b>.<p>
              <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --limit <b>hlm004-ccp-comp0007*(where do we get this information?)</b></codeblock>
            </p><p>Once you have added a new node/server to the system, you must enure that the swift rings are
              updated with the new node/server(s) details and the rings are distributed to all swift
              servers. Run the following
              command:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --limit SWF* (<b>what is the meaning of "*"?</b>) </codeblock></p></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
