<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qkg_l4v_bt">
  <title>How to Modify Input Model</title>
  <body>
    <p>This page describes the configuration of Swift services with the various types of input
      models supported in this release. </p>
 <section><title>Types of Input Models</title>
      <ul id="ul_l4q_31v_dt">
        <li><b>
            <xref href="#topic_qkg_l4v_bt/configuration-of-swift-vsa-model" format="dita"
              >Entry-scale-with-vsa</xref>
          </b>This has a single control plane cluster running all services (Nova, Swift, Glance,
          etc) with an additional 3 resource nodes used as Nova compute servers. </li>
        <li>
<<<<<<< HEAD
          <p><b><xref href="#topic_qkg_l4v_bt/config-swift-services" format="dita">mid size
                cloud</xref>
            </b>- (<b>NOTE : This model is not supported in Beta1)</b>This example model describes a
            system using multiple servers and networks. It provides an example for the configuration
            of the mid sized cloud. You must use this example model as the basis for building a
            cloud model for your actual cloud by configuring the server and network that you plan to
            deploy. To deploy Swift using this model you must make Swift -specific changes to the
            provided example.</p>
          <p/>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section id="configuration-of-swift-vsa-model"
        ><b>Entry-scale-with-vsa</b><p><!--This section describes configuration of Swift services in th entry-scale-with-vsa.--></p><p>The
        entry-scale-with-vsa is relatively simple and constrained so other than checking that the
        disk drives exist and are correctly assigned, you probably do not need to make any
        Swift-related changes to this model before using it. You are expected to use the mid-size
        cloud example model as the basis for building a cloud model for your actual cloud – using
        the servers and networks you plan to deploy.</p><p>Before starting the deploy, you must
        validate, and possibly update the data in the cloud model files as follows:</p><ul
        id="ul_gsp_gqh_2t">
        <li>
          <?oxy_delete author="sharmabi" timestamp="20150829T100711+0530" content="entry-scale-with-vsa:"?>
          <ul id="ul_y5p_gqh_2t">
            <li>Examine the <u>data/disks_controller.yml</u> file and validate that the drives exist
              and have the appropriate preconditions as described in <i>Requirements for a disk
                device.</i></li>
            <li>If you plan to add more Swift storage nodes or drives, you should read the
              information about partition power in <i>Specifying the rings (ring specifications).
              </i>However, in most cases you do not need to change the config/swift/rings.yml
              file.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul></section>
    <section><b>Node Type</b><p><b>Proxy, Container, Account, Object (PACO) Node</b>: The
        Swift-proxy, Account, Container and Object services run on the same (PACO) node type in the
        control plane. All other control services also run on this node
        type.<!--This is used for smaller clouds or where Swift is a minor element in a larger cloud.--></p></section>
    <section><b>YML files associated with Swift Services</b></section>
    <section>
      <p>The following <codeph>yml</codeph> files are configured for <b>entry-scale-with-vsa</b>
        model:</p>
    </section>
    <p>
      <ul>
        <li><codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph><p>This<b> ROLE-CONTROLLER</b> node type runs on
            the <b>c1</b> cluster as specified in </p></li>
        <li><codeph>data/disk_controller.yml</codeph><p>The controller node type allocates two disk
            drives for use by Swift. This is specified in the </p></li>
        <li><codeph>config/swift/rings.yml</codeph><p>Swift account, container, and object storage
=======
          <p><!--<b><xref href="#topic_qkg_l4v_bt/config-swift-services" format="dita">mid size cloud</xref> </b>- (<b>NOTE : This model is not supported in Beta1)</b>This example model describes a system using multiple servers and networks. It provides an example for the configuration of the mid sized cloud. You must use this example model as the basis for building a cloud model for your actual cloud by configuring the server and network that you plan to deploy. To deploy Swift using this model you must make Swift -specific changes to the provided example.--></p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    
    <section id="configuration-of-swift-vsa-model"><title>Configuration of Swift Services in the
        Entry-scale-with-vsa</title><p>This section describes configuration of Swift services in the Entry-scale-with-vsa.</p>
  <p>The Swift-proxy, Account, Container and Object services run on the same Proxy, Container, Account, Object (PACO) node
      type in the control plane. This is used for smaller clouds or where Swift is a minor element
      in a larger cloud.</p></section>
    <section><title>YML files associated with Swift Services</title>
      <p>The following <codeph>yml</codeph> files are configured for <b>entry-scale-with-vsa</b>
          model:</p>
        <simpletable>
          <strow><stentry>data/control_plane.yml</stentry><stentry></stentry></strow>
          <strow><stentry>data/disk_controller.yml</stentry><stentry>This <codeph>yml</codeph> file contains the
            Swift information (swiftobj disk-group). This describes what disks on each of the
            servers are assigned to Swift and the rings that uses those drives. For more information
            about allocating a disk drives, refer to <xref
              href="allocate_disk_drives.dita#topic_twv_b55_dt"/></stentry></strow>
          <strow><stentry>config/swift/rings.yml</stentry><stentry>Swift account, container, and object storage
>>>>>>> 2e1c48d707980f7c90a969d3039acb1f0b333f48
            are managed by Swift using a data structure known as a <i>ring</i>. This
            <codeph>yml</codeph> file provides the specification of the rings. For more
            information on ring specification, refer to<xref
              href="ring_parameters.dita#topic_efw_k55_dt"> ring specification</xref>.</stentry></strow>
          <strow><stentry>data/network_groups.yml</stentry><stentry>This <codeph>yml</codeph> file specifies the MGMT and Swift networks. The Swift-proxy
            service uses the Swift network to communicate with the other Swift services and among
<<<<<<< HEAD
            themselves.</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    <section id="config-swift-services"><b><b>Configuration of Swift Services in the Mid Size Cloud
          Model</b></b><p><!--This section describes configuration of Swift services in the mid size cloud model.--></p><?oxy_insert_start author="sharmabi" timestamp="20150829T100724+0530"?><p>Before
        starting the deploy, you must validate, and possibly update the data in the cloud model
        files as follows:</p><p>
        <ul id="ul_n1x_crh_2t">
          <li>
            <ul id="ul_x1x_crh_2t">
              <li>You need to assign servers for use by Swift. See <i>Allocating Servers for use by
                  Swift</i></li>
              <li>These servers have disk drives. See <i>Allocating disk drives for use by
                Swift</i></li>
              <li>You need to specify the rings for your system. See<i> Specifying the rings (ring
                  specifications</i></li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p><?oxy_insert_end?><p>Before starting the deploy, you must validate, and possibly update
        the data in the cloud model files as follows:</p></section>
    <section id="node-type"><b>Node Type</b></section>
    <p>There are two type of nodes that is associated with Swift services. They are as follows:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Proxy, Container, Account (PAC) Node</b>: This node runs the Swift-proxy,
        Swift-account, and Swift-container services. The Swift-proxy service processes API requests
        and directs them to the Swift-account, Swift-container or Swift-object services for
        processing. The Swift-account and Swift-container handle requests to accounts and containers
        respectively.</li>
      <li><b>Object (OBJ) Node</b>: This node runs the Swift-object service. The Swift-object
        service handles requests for objects.</li>
    </ul>
    <section><b>YML files associated with Swift Services</b></section>
    <section>
      <p>In the example mid sized cloud model, the Swift services are configured in the following
          <codeph>yml</codeph> files:</p>
=======
            themselves.</stentry></strow>
        </simpletable>
>>>>>>> 2e1c48d707980f7c90a969d3039acb1f0b333f48
    </section>
        <section id="config-swift-services"><!--<title>Configuration of Swift Services in the Mid Size Cloud Model</title><p>This section describes configuration of Swift services in the mid size cloud model.</p><sectiondiv id="node-type"><b>Node Type</b> <p>There are two type of nodes that is associated with Swift services. They are as follows:</p><ul><li><b>Proxy, Container, Account (PAC) Node</b>: This node runs the Swift-proxy, Swift-account, and Swift-container services. The Swift-proxy service processes API requests and directs them to the Swift-account, Swift-container or Swift-object services for processing. The Swift-account and Swift-container handle requests to accounts and containers respectively.</li><li><b>Object (OBJ) Node</b>: This node runs the Swift-object service. The Swift-object service handles requests for objects.</li></ul> </sectiondiv>--><sectiondiv>
        <!--<b>YML files associated with Swift Services</b> <p>In the example mid sized cloud model, the Swift services are configured using the following <codeph>yml</codeph> files:</p><simpletable><strow><stentry>data/control_plane.yml</stentry><stentry><p>The Proxy, Container, and Account node types are assigned to a dedicated <i>cluster of nodes</i> as specified in the <b>swpac</b> cluster in <codeph>yml</codeph> file. These nodes are dedicated only to Swift services. </p><p>The Object node type is assigned to a dedicated <i>resource nodes</i> group as specified in the <b>swobj</b> group in <codeph>yml</codeph> file. Requests to Swift are directed to a virtual IP address (VIP) that is managed by a cluster as specified in the <b>core</b> cluster in <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> file. The requests are then directed on the MGMT network to the Swift-proxy service on one of the Proxy, Container, Account nodes.</p></stentry></strow><strow><stentry>data/disks_swpac.yml</stentry><stentry>The Proxy, Container, Account node type uses two disk drives to store account and container databases which is specified in this file. For more information about allocating a disk drives, refer to <xref href="allocate_disk_drives.dita#topic_twv_b55_dt"/></stentry></strow><strow><stentry>data/disks_swobj.yml</stentry><stentry>The Object node type uses two disk drives to store account and container databases which is specified in this file. For more information about allocating a disk drives, refer to <xref href="allocate_disk_drives.dita#topic_twv_b55_dt"/></stentry></strow><strow><stentry>config/swift/rings.yml</stentry><stentry>Swift account, container, and object storage are managed by Swift using a data structure known as a <i>ring</i>. This <codeph>yml</codeph> file provides the specification of the rings. For more information on ring specification, refer to <xref href="#topic_qkg_l4v_bt/ring-specification" format="dita">ring specification.</xref></stentry></strow><strow><stentry>data/network_groups.yml</stentry><stentry>This <codeph>yml</codeph> file specifies the MGMT and Swift networks. The Swift-proxy service uses the Swift network to communicate with the other Swift services and among themselves. For more information about allocating a disk drives, refer to</stentry></strow></simpletable> -->
        <p> The Swift-proxy service uses two other cloud services. Both of these are configured in
          the example to run on the <b>core</b> cluster: </p>
        <ul>
          <li>Swift validates tokens by making requests to the Keystone service</li>
          <li>Swift caches tokens and other data using the memcached service</li>
        </ul>
      </sectiondiv></section>
  </body>
</topic>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>
