<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_izw_1mz_4t">
  <title>Rebalance Explained</title>
  <body>
    <p>The ring building process tries to distribute data evenly among the available disk drives.
      The data is stored in partition, as explained in <xref
        href="ring_specifications.dita#ring-specification"/>. Suppose you double the number of disk
      drives in a ring, you need to move 50% of the partitions to the new drives so that all drives
      contain the same number of partitions (and hence same amount of data). But it is not possible
      to move the partitions in a single step. It can take minutes to hours to move partitions from
      the original drives to their new drives (this process is called the <i>replication</i>
      process).  If you move all partitions at once, there would be a period where Swift would
      expect to find partitions on the new drives, but the data had not yet replicated there and
      hence Swift could not return the data to the user. This is because data will eventually be
      replicated. Therefore, Swift won't be able to find all the data in the middle of replication
      as some data has finished replication while other bits of data are still in the old locations
      and have not yet been moved. Instead, move only one replica at a time. If the replica count is
      3, we could first move 16.6% of the partitions. We then wait until all data has replicated. We
      then move a further 16.6% of partitions. Wait again and then finally move the remaining 16.6%
      of partitions. For any given object, only one of the replicas is moved at a time.</p>
    <p><!--If you move all partitions at once, there is a possibility that the data is not replicated on the new drives. Hence, Swift won't be able to find the partition of the new drive and won't be able to return the data to the user. Therefore, you must move one replica at a time. If the replica count is 3, you can first move 16.6% of the partitions and wait till all data are replicated. Then move a further 16.6% of partitions and wait again for all the data to replicate and finally move the remaining 16.6% of partitions. For any given object, only one of the replicas is moved at a time.--></p>
    <section><sectiondiv><b>Reason to move partition gradually</b></sectiondiv><p>Due to the
        following factors, you must move the partition gradually: </p><ul id="ul_jrz_q3s_4t">
        <li>Not all devices are of the same size. We automatically assign different weights to
          drives so that smaller drives store fewer partitions than larger drives.</li>
        <li>The process attempts to keep replicas of the same partition in different servers, Swift
          zones or Swift regions.</li>
        <li>When making large changes, you may not double the number of drives in one step. This may
          involve much traffic related to replication process which may suffer the system
          performance.</li>
        <li> we might not double the number of drives in one step since this might involve so much
          traffic related to the replication process that the system performance suffers. There are
          two ways to mitigate this:<ul id="ul_msz_tjs_4t">
            <li>Add servers in smaller groups</li>
            <li>Set the weight-step attribute in the ring specification (see <xref
                href="swift_preparing_ring_changes.dita#topic_t1y_vjs_4t">Preparing for Ring
                Changes</xref>).</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul></section>
  </body>
</topic>
