---
layout: 1.0default-devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: PHP RabbitMQ Messaging Sample"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/workbook/messaging/php/
product: devplatform1.0
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P
SME1: Sam C

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: PHP RabbitMQ Messaging Sample
[See the Helion 1.1 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/workbook/messaging/php/)

This very simple PHP web app displays a simple form that takes a string from the user, adds the message to a queue, reads it from the queue and prints the message back to the screen. This is a demonstration of the minimum requirements to build an application that can connect to a RabbitMQ cluster provided by ALS and interact with it. Use this sample to ensure that you have set up your environment correctly for connecting to and working with RabbitMQ on the Helion Development Platform. 

## Prerequisites
If you are missing any of these items, you must [install them](/helion/devplatform/appdev/).

- Access to an Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) [Cluster](/als/v1/admin/cluster/)
- The  [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/als/v1/user/client/) must be installed.
- Access to the web-based [Helion Management Console](/als/v1/user/console/).

##RabbitMQ
If the RabbitMQ service is not enabled, or you are not sure, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Administrative console for your ALS cluster. (e.g. *https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.xip.io*);  substitute your own cluster's link)
1. On the **Admin** tab, click **Cluster**.
1. Click the **Settings** icon (a gear icon in the upper right corner)
1. Both of the **Rabbit** and **Rabbit3** check boxes should be checked. If they are not, check them.
1. Click **Save**.

**NOTE:** If an application needs increased message throughput and/or increased availability beyond the single-instance, unmanaged RabbitMQ service provided by ALS, please follow these instructions to [create and manage a RabbitMQ cluster](/helion/devplatform/messageservice/) in the Messaging Service, and link that instance to your [ALS cluster](/helion/devplatform/1.0/msgaas/als/).


##Download the Application Files

[Click here to access the code repository](https://github.com/HelionDevPlatform/helion-rabbitmq-php/).

##Deploy the Application
**Note**: Application Lifecycle Service clusters that require an upstream HTTP proxy to access the internet will need to be [made aware of the proxy](/als/v1/admin/server/configuration/#staging-cache-app-http-proxy). The sample applications require access to the Internet in order to download dependent packages. 

Use the Helion client to deploy your app to Helion Development Platform.  If you have Eclipse installed, you have the option to use the [plugin](/helion/devplatform/eclipse/).

1.	Open the [Helion command-line interface (CLI)](/als/v1/user/reference/client-ref/)
3.	Ensure that you are targeting your desired environment.  <br /> If you are not, execute
	
		helion target https://api.xx.xx.xx.xx.example.com2.	


1. Ensure that you are logged in to your desired environment.  <br />If you are not, execute
	
		helion login
		
4.	If you are not already there, `cd` to the root directory of the sample.
5.	Deploy the application by using the command:
	
		helion push
	
6.	Accept any default values that you may be prompted for. <br />**Note**: By default, ALS clusters are configured with two domains (private and public). In some situations, the Helion CLI may prompt you to select a target domain. If prompted, select the public domain from the given list (i.e. *&lt;app-name>.xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx.xip.io*)

##Key Code Snippets
This section of the ProcessForm.php file shows how to retrieve the connection information for the RabbitMQ cluster from the application's environment variables. The code then creates a queue, an exchange, post the message to the queue, reads the message from the queue then writes it back out to the user.

	$url = parse_url(getenv('RABBITMQ_URL'));
	$conn = new AMQPConnection($url['host'], $url['port'], $url['user'], $url['pass'], substr($url['path'], 1));
	$ch = $conn->channel();

	// Create a queue
	$queue = 'basic_get_queue';
	$ch->queue_declare($queue, false, true, false, false); 

	// Create an exchange
	$exchange = 'amq.direct';
	$ch->exchange_declare($exchange, 'direct', true, true, false);
	$ch->queue_bind($queue, $exchange);

	// Publish the user's message
	$msg_body = $_POST["message"];
	$msg = new AMQPMessage($msg_body, array('content_type' => 'text/plain', 'delivery_mode' => 2));
	$ch->basic_publish($msg, $exchange);

	// Retrieve the message that was sent
	$retrived_msg = $ch->basic_get($queue);
	$msgContents = $retrived_msg->body;
	echo $msgContents;
	$ch->basic_ack($retrived_msg->delivery_info['delivery_tag']);

	$ch->close();
	$conn->close(); 

 The *manifest.yml* file is the configuration information used by ALS to set up the environment. The **services** element informs ALS on how to bind the RabbitMQ service provided by the ALS cluster to the application. <br />The file also provides the **buildpack** element used by ALS to configure the application environment for using PHP.<br />In addition to specifying a buildpack, the file includes a pre-staging hook that directs the ALS cluster to download and install the Composer Dependency Manager package for PHP. 

	---
	---
	applications:
	- name: rabbitmq-php
	buildpack: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/php-buildpack.git
	services:
	rabbitmq:
	type: rabbitmq3 




##Run the Application
1. Open the Helion Management Console. This is the web-based administrative interface.
1. Click **Applications**.
1. If the file push was successful, you should see **Rabbit MQ** in the list of available applications.
1. The status of the application should be **Started**. Click the name of the application to launch it.
1. In the upper right-hand corner, click **View App**.


##Key Learnings
1. You will need to provide configuration information so that ALS can bind to a RabbitMQ service. Configuration information is contained in the *manifest.yml* file.
1. ALS requires configuration information to create an environment for your app, including buildpack information for PHP. Configuration information is contained in the *manifest.yml* file.
1. You will need to retrieve connection information for RabbitMQ from the application's environment variables.
1. You interact with and deploy your app using the Helion CLI or the [Eclipse plugin](/helion/devplatform/eclipse/).

[Exit Samples](/helion/devplatform/appdev/) | [Previous Sample](/helion/devplatform/workbook/database/php/) | [Next Sample](/helion/devplatform/workbook/helloworld/php/)
 

