---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Uploading and Downloading Objects"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/container/upload/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Uploading and Downloading Objects

An object is the basic storage entity that represents a file you store in the OpenStack Object Storage system. When you upload data to OpenStack Object Storage, the data is stored as-is (no compression or encryption) and consists of a location (container), the object's name, and any metadata consisting of key/value pairs

### Uploading an object into a container ###

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Object Store** tab on the dashboard **Project** panel.

3. In the **Object Store** panel, click **Containers**.

4. Select the container in which you want to store your object.

5. Click **Upload Object**.

6. The **Upload Object To Container: <name>** dialog box is displayed. <name> is the name of the container to which you are uploading the object.
7. Enter a name for the object.

8. Browse to and select the file that you want to upload.

9. Click **Upload Object** to confirm.

### Downloading objects from a container ###

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Object Store** tab on the dashboard **Project** panel.

3. In the **Object Store** panel, click **Containers**.

4. Select the container from which you want to download the object.

5. Click **Download** next to the object to download the file to your local drive.  

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
