---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Creating and Deleting Containers"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/container/create/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!-- <p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a></p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Creating and Deleting Containers

A container is a storage compartment for your data and provides a way for you to organize your data. You can think of a container as a folder in Windows&#174; or a directory in UNIX&#174;. The primary difference between a container and these other file system concepts is that containers cannot be nested. You can, however, create an unlimited number of containers within your account. Data must be stored in a container so you must have at least one container defined in your account prior to uploading data.

### Create a container ###

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Object Store** tab on the dashboard **Project** panel.

3. In the **Object Store** panel, click **Containers**.

4. In the **Create Container** dialog box, enter a name for the container, set the access level and then click **Create Container**.

	**Note:** A Public Container will allow anyone with the Public URL to gain access to your objects in the container.

### Delete a container ###

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Object Store** tab on the dashboard **Project** panel.

3. In the **Object Store** pan, click **Containers**.

4. From the **More** drop-down list next to a container, select **Delete container**

5. The **Delete Container** dialog box will appear. 

6. Click **Delete Container** to confirm. The container and all objects stored within it will be permanently deleted.  

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
