---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack Commercial Managing Domains"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/domains/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174;  1.1 Managing the Domain</h1>

A domain is a high-level container for the projects, users, and groups that define administrative boundaries for management of those entities. A domain can represent an individual, company, or operator-owned space.

The admin user can use the dashboard to configure the domain by creating building blocks such as flavors and quotas, and managing availability zones and host aggregates.	

### Managing flavors for a domain

A flavor defines the compute, memory, and storage capacity of a virtual server that users can launch. As an administrative user, you can create, edit, and delete flavors.

Use the System panel on the Admin dashboard to:

* [Create, modify, and delete flavors](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/flavors/)
* [Modify access to a flavor](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/flavors/access/)
</ul>

### Managing images for a domain ###

A virtual machine image is a single file which contains a virtual disk that has a bootable operating system installed on it.

As an admin, you can determine if an image is available only in the current project or to all projects in the domain (public).

* [Make an instance snapshot public](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/snapshots/public/)

### Managing Availability Zone and Host Aggregates for a domain

Host aggregates are a mechanism to further partition an availability zone. Host aggregates provide a mechanism to allow administrators to assign key-value pairs to groups of machines. 

Use the **System** panel in the **Admin** dashboard to modify the availability zones and aggregates for your domain.

* [Create, modify, delete host aggregates](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/aggregates/)

<!-- not in Community
### Enabling and disabling services ###

Use the Admin dashboard to enable and disable services in a domain.
-->
<p><a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
