---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; HP Helion OpenStack Commercial Manage Flavors"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/flavors/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Managing Compute Flavors</h1>

Compute flavors are machine configurations that describe the amount of memory, number of CPUs, and storage capacity of instances. The moment you register a chassis, a flavor is created by default. You can use the default flavor or create a flavor of your choice.

An admin user can create, edit, and delete instances as needed. 

* [Create a flavor](#createflavor)
* [Edit a flavor](#editflavor")
* [Delete a flavor](#deleteflavor)

### Create a flavor ### {#createflavor}

To create a flavor:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2 Click the **Flavors** link on the **Admin** dashboard **System** panel.
	The flavors in the domain are listed. 

3. Click **Create Flavor**. 

4. In the **Create Flavor** screen, click the **Flavor Info** tab (should be active).

5. Enter the name that you want to assign to the flavor.</li>
	* In the **ID** field, enter a unique string that identifies this flavor.</li>
	* In the **VCPUs** field, enter the required number of virtual CPUs to be included in the flavor.</li>
	* In the **RAM MB** field, enter the virtual machine memory in megabytes to be included in the flavor.</li>
	* In the **Root Disk GB** field, enter the size for the virtual root disk size in gigabytes.</li>
	* From the **Ephemeral disk GB** field, enter the size of a secondary ephemeral data disk in gigabytes. This is an empty, unformatted disk and exists only for the life of the instance.</li>
	* From the **Swap Disk MB** field, enter the amount of swap space allocation for the flavor.</li>

6. Click the **Flavor Access** tab.

7. Add the flavor to a project by clicking the **+** icon next to each project in the **All Projects** column.

	By default, no project is specified as having access the flavor. If none is specified, all projects can access the flavor.

8. Click **Create Flavor** to create a new the flavor.<br>
A message is displayed on successful creation.

### Edit a flavor ### {#editflavor}</h3>

To edit a flavor:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Flavors** link on the **Admin** dashboard **System** panel.

	The flavors in the domain are listed. 

3. For the flavor you want to modify, click **Edit Flavor**. 

4. In the **Edit Flavor** screen, click the **Flavor Info** tab (should be active).

5. Use the **Flavor Info** and **Flavor Access** tabs to modify the flavor as needed. See <a href="#createflavor">Create a flavor</a> for a description of each field.

6. When done editing, click **Save**.

A message is displayed on successful edit.

### Delete a flavor ### {#deleteflavor}</h3>

Instances that use the flavor are not affected when a flavor is deleted.

To delete a flavor:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Flavors** link on the **Admin** dashboard **System** panel.

	The flavors in the domain are listed. 

3. For the flavor you want to modify, click **More &gt; Delete Flavor**. 

4. In the confirmation screen, click **Delete Flavor**.
<p>A message is displayed on successful delete. 

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
