<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--This work by HP Helion Openstack is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See the accompanying LICENSE file for more information.-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="alarm_definitions">
  <title>Alarm Creation</title>
  <shortdesc>This page allows you to define alarms that are useful in generating notifications and
    metrics required by your organization. By default, alarm definitions are sorted by name and in a
    table format.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Search and Sort</title>
      <p>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and Status
        are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can filter by typing
        in text similar to searching by keywords.</p>
      <p>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to delete:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Select Visible</uicontrol> allows you to delete the selected alarm
          definitions from the table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Select All</uicontrol> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
          table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Clear Selection</uicontrol> allows you to clear all the selections currently
          selected from the table.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
        corresponding icons next to the <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control.</p>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which you
        can sort the alarm definitions. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column headers in
        the table.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Name</uicontrol> displays the alarm definitions by the name assigned
          to it when it was created.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Description</uicontrol> displays the descriptive details of the alarm
          definitions.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Notifications Enabled</uicontrol> displays the alarm definitions'
          notification criteria, such as whether enabled for certain types of alarms and how the
          notification is disseminated (by Email, Web, etc.)</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Create Alarm Definitions</title>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Create Alarm Definition</uicontrol> button beside the search bar allows you
        to create a new alarm definition.</p>
      <p>To create a new alarm definition:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Create Alarm Definitions</uicontrol> button to open a separate
          window that allows you to configure a new alarm.</li>
        <li>In the Create Alarm Definition window, type a name for the alarm in the
            <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> text field. The name is required and may be up to 255
          characters in length consisting of letters, numbers, or special characters.</li>
        <li>Provide some useful details about the alarm in the <uicontrol>Description</uicontrol>
          text field (optional).</li>
        <li>Set the severity level for the alarm in the <uicontrol>Severity</uicontrol> drop-down
          menu. The severity level is optional but subjective, so choose the level appropriate for
          prioritizing the handling of alarms when they occur.</li>
        <li>Although not required, in order to specify how to receive notifications, you must be
          able to select the method(s) of notification (Email, Web, API, etc.) from the list of
          options in the Alarm Notifications area. If none are available to choose from, you must
          first configure them in the Notifications Methods window. Refer to the Notification
          Methods help page for further instructions.</li>
        <li>To turn the notifications on for the alarm, click to select <uicontrol>Enable
            Notifications</uicontrol>. </li>
        <li>Apply the following rules to your alarm by using the Alarm Expressions form: <ul>
            <li><uicontrol>Function</uicontrol>: determines the output value from a supplied input
              value. </li>
            <li><uicontrol>Metric</uicontrol>: applies a pre-defined means of measuring whatever
              aspect of the alarm.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Relational Operator</uicontrol>: specifies the operator for how you want
              the alarm to trigger.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Value</uicontrol>: determines the numeric threshold associated with the
              operator you specified.</li>
            <li><uicontrol>Dimensions</uicontrol>: identifies which aspect (Hostname, Region, and
              Service) of the alarm you want to monitor.</li>
          </ul></li>

        <li>Select whether you want to apply the expressions individually or as a group to the
          previously selected dimension(s). </li>
        <li>When done creating the alarm, click <uicontrol>Create Alarm</uicontrol>. If you want to
          create multiple expressions for the alarm, or use the Alarm Expression Editor instead,
          proceed to the next section.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Alarm Expression Editor</title>
      <p>The Alarm Expression Editor is particularly useful if you already know the string syntax of
        the expression(s) you want to use, or can paste it from another expression and adjust values
        in the syntax as needed.</p>
      <p>If you prefer to use an Expression Editor instead, perform the following steps:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Convert to Alarm Expression Editor</uicontrol> button.<p>The right
            half of the form turns into a free-form text field. </p></li>
        <li>Type or paste syntax for the expression you want to use. Adjust values as
          necessary.</li>
        <li>Once in the Editor mode, and you need to create a new expression, click the
            <uicontrol>Alarm Expression Editor</uicontrol> button to open the Alarm Expressions
          form. The form on this screen allows you to set up one or multiple expressions at once.
            <note>For more information about working with multiple expressions, refer to the next
            section.</note></li>
        <li>Use the form to apply rules to your alarm as described in the Create Alarm Definitions
          section.</li>
        <li>When done applying rules to create an expression for your alarm, click <uicontrol>Create
            Alarm</uicontrol>.</li>
      </ol>
      <title>Work with Multiple Expressions</title>
      <p>You may create, edit, or delete multiple expressions using the Alarm Expression Editor
        form.</p>
      <p>To create multiple expressions:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>From the Create Alarm Definition window, click the <uicontrol>Convert to Alarm
            Expression Editor</uicontrol> button if not already converted. </li>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Alarm Expression Editor</uicontrol> button to open a separate
          window.</li>
        <li>Use the form to apply rules to your alarm as described in the Create Alarm Definitions
          section.</li>
        <li>Click <uicontrol>Add New Expression</uicontrol> to add another expression to your alarm.
            <p>A new blank form is inserted for creating a new expression.</p></li>
        <li>Repeat for each new expression you want to add.</li>



        <li>If there are multiple expressions, the following options are available: <ul>
            <li>To edit an expression, locate the one you want to edit, change its values and then
              click the <uicontrol>Update Expression</uicontrol> button.</li>
            <li>To remove any expression you no longer need, locate the expression you want to
              delete, and click the <uicontrol>Delete Expression</uicontrol> button.</li>
            <li>To create expressions to be included as part of a group, click the <uicontrol>Add
                New Expression Group</uicontrol> button, then refer to the previous section to
              create multiple expressions for each group.</li>
            <li>To add more expression groups, click the <uicontrol>Add New Expression
                Group</uicontrol> button to insert a new Expression Group form.</li>
            <li>To remove any expression group you no longer need, locate the expression group you
              want to delete, and click the <uicontrol>Delete Expression Group</uicontrol>
              button.</li>
            <li>Specify the type of trigger you want for each expression group by selecting
                <uicontrol>Any Expression in Group</uicontrol> to let the alarm trigger if the
              criteria applied to any of the expressions in the group is met; or select
                <uicontrol>All Expressions in the Group</uicontrol> to only trigger the alarm if all
              the critera of all the expressions in the group are met.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Multiple group expressions must have triggering conditions, which is presented in a
          table format at the bottom of the form in the Expression Group Combination Triggering
          Conditions area: <ol>
            <li>You may set <uicontrol>Any</uicontrol>, <uicontrol>All</uicontrol> or
                <uicontrol>None</uicontrol> of the groups to trigger by selecting the conditions and
              their associated expession groups.</li>
            <li>When done specifying the triggers and their conditions, click the <uicontrol>Set
                Conditions</uicontrol> button.</li>
            <li>To see the syntax of the newly created expressions, click the <uicontrol>View
                Expressions Syntax</uicontrol> button. <p>Viewing the syntax opens a window showing
                the entire expression(s) created, like in the following
              example:</p><codeblock>avg(cpu.system_perc{hostname=hostname.domain.com}) > 90 or avg(disk_read_ops{hostname=hostname.domain.com, device=vda}, 120) > 1000</codeblock></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>When done with the Expressions Editor, click <uicontrol>Complete Editing</uicontrol> to
          close the Alarm Expression Editor form.</li>
        <li>When done creating the alarm, click <uicontrol>Create Alarm</uicontrol>. </li>
      </ol>
      <p>After the alarm definition saves, the Alarm Definitions window refreshes with the new alarm
        definition populates in the table.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
