<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--This work by HP Helion Openstack is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See the accompanying LICENSE file for more information.-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="compute_hosts">
  <title>Compute Hosts</title>
  <shortdesc>This page allows you to activate and deactivate Compute resources.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Search and Sort</title>
      <p>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and Status
        are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can filter by typing
        in text similar to searching by keywords.</p>
      <p>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to delete:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Select Visible</uicontrol> allows you to delete the selected alarm
          definitions from the table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Select All</uicontrol> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
          table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Clear Selection</uicontrol> allows you to clear all the selections currently
          selected from the table.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
        corresponding icons next to the <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control.</p>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which you
        can sort the compute nodes. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column headers in the
        table.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Name</uicontrol> displays the compute nodes by the name assigned to
          it when it was created.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by State</uicontrol> displays the current state of the compute
          node.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Type</uicontrol> displays the type of compute node.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Status</uicontrol> displays the current status of the compute
          node.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Operating System</uicontrol> aaa</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Capacity</uicontrol> aaa</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
