<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--This work by HP Helion Openstack is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See the accompanying LICENSE file for more information.-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="time_series_graphs">
  <title>Metric Monitoring</title>
  <shortdesc>This page allows you to define charts that display data based on the metrics and
    parameters you choose. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Search</title>
      <p>The search bar allows you to filter the notification methods you want to view. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Create Chart</title>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol> button beside the search bar allows you to create a
        new data chart.</p>
      <p>To create a new chart:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Click the <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol> button to open a separate window that
          allows you to configure a new chart.</li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Chart Definition</uicontrol> section you will make the following
          choices: <ul>
            <li>Give your chart a <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol>.</li>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Type</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>
                <li>Line</li>
                <li>Bar</li>
                <li>Stacked Bar</li>
                <li>Area</li>
                <li>Stacked Area</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Size</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>
                <li>Small</li>
                <li>Large</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Chart Update Rate</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>
                <li>1 Minute</li>
                <li>5 Minutes</li>
                <li>10 Minutes</li>
                <li>30 Minutes</li>
                <li>1 Hour</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Time Range</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>
                <li>Last 60 Minutes</li>
                <li>Last 2 Hours</li>
                <li>Last 4 Hours</li>
                <li>Last 8 Hours</li>
                <li>Last 24 Hours</li>
                <li>Last 7 Days</li>
                <li>Last 30 Days</li>
                <li>Last 90 Days</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Statistical Function</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are: <ul>
                <li>[ None ]</li>
                <li>AVG</li>
                <li>SUM</li>
                <li>MIN</li>
                <li>MAX</li>
                <li>COUNT</li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>In the <uicontrol>Chart Data</uicontrol> section you will select up to six metric and
          dimension pairs to define what information your chart will reflect. <ul>
            <li>Select a <uicontrol>Metric</uicontrol> from the drop down.</li>
            <li>Select an <uicontrol>Associated Dimension</uicontrol> from the following options: <ul>
                <li>Service</li>
                <li>Region</li>
                <li>Avail. Zone</li>
                <li>Host</li>
                <li>Device</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Select the <uicontrol>Add Data to Chart</uicontrol> button to add the metric and
              dimension pair to the list that populates on the right side</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>When done creating the chart, click <uicontrol>Create Chart</uicontrol> to populate it
          in the Metric Monitoring chart list.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>After the chart saves, the Metric Monitoring window refreshes with the new chart data
        populated in the view.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
