<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--This work by HP Helion Openstack is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. See the accompanying LICENSE file for more information.-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="networking_summary">
  <title>Networking Summary</title>
  <shortdesc>This page allows you to view your networking resources</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Search and Sort</title>
      <p>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and Status
        are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can filter by typing
        in text similar to searching by keywords.</p>
      <p>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to delete:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Select Visible</uicontrol> allows you to delete the selected alarm
          definitions from the table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Select All</uicontrol> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
          table.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Clear Selection</uicontrol> allows you to clear all the selections currently
          selected from the table.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
        corresponding icons next to the <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control.</p>
      <p>The <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which you
        can sort the alarm definitions. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column headers in
        the table.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Name</uicontrol> displays the alarm definitions by the name assigned
          to it when it was created.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Description</uicontrol> displays the descriptive details of the alarm
          definitions.</li>
        <li><uicontrol>Sort by Notifications Enabled</uicontrol> displays the alarm definitions'
          notification criteria, such as whether enabled for certain types of alarms and how the
          notification is disseminated (by Email, Web, etc.)</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
