---
layout: trial-quick-start-devplatform-10
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial Step 4"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/4/
product: devplatform2.0
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>
function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}
PageRefresh();
</script>

# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial {#top}

An ALS cluster provides the support infrastructure necessary to deploy and manage applications. <br />During this step, you will send a set of commands and variables to the <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool. The tool will use those parameters to create the cluster, set up the admin login credentials, and return a URL for the cluster's management console. 

<table style="background-color: #FFF; vertical-align:top;">
<tr style="padding: 0;">
<td style="vertical-align:top;">
<p>
1. <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/">Register for your Helion Public Cloud Account</a>
</p><p>
2. <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/2">Download  Tools</i></a>
</p><p>
3. <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/3">Create the Sandbox Environment</a>
  <table border="0" style="background-color: #FFF;">
   <tr>
   <td style="background-color: #F0FFFF;">
    4.&nbsp;<b>Create&nbsp;A Cluster</b>
   </td>
   </tr>
   </table>
<p>
5. <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/5">Add Windows DEA and SQL Server (Optional Step)</a>
</p>
<p>
6. <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/6">Explore Sample Applications</a>
</p>
</td>
<td style="background-color: #F0FFFF; vertical-align: top;"><b>Create a Cluster</b>
<p>For convenience, copy the command sets and paste them into a text editor. You can edit them there and then paste that information into the <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/client/reference" target="_blank"><i>cf-mgmt</i></a> tool as necessary.
<ol style="padding-left: 1em;">
<li>Open a terminal window and change directory to the location where you installed the <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/client/reference" target="_blank"><i>cf-mgmt</i></a> command-line tool.
</li><br />
<li>Run the following set of commands using the <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/als/client/reference" target="_blank"><i>cf-mgmt</i></a> tool to create the cluster. In the unlikely event that the cluster creation fails, refer to the <a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</a> section for further instructions.<p><b>Note:</b> It may take about 15 minutes to deploy each cluster image in this and the following step.</p>
<ul>
<li>For Windows&#174;:<br />
Open the RC file you downloaded earlier in a text editor,<br /> as you will need to enter values from that file.
<pre style="font-color: black;">
cf-mgmt.exe ^
	--os-auth-url &lt;OS_AUTH_URL from openstackrc&gt; ^
	--os-username &lt;OS_USERNAME from openstackrc&gt; ^
	--os-password &lt;OpenStack password&gt; ^
	--os-tenant-id &lt;OS_TENANT_ID from openstackrc&gt; ^
	--os-tenant-name &lt;OS_TENANT_NAME from openstackrc&gt; ^
	--os-region-name &lt;OS_REGION_NAME from openstackrc&gt; ^
create-cluster ^
	--keypair-name &lt;name of keypair created earlier&gt; ^
	--admin-email &lt;your login for the quick-start&gt; ^
	--admin-password &lt;your password for the quick-start&gt; ^
	--load http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/1.2/config/trial.yml
</pre>
</li>
<li>For Mac/Unix:<br />
You do not need to open the RC file; the <i>source</i> command will retrieve the necessary values from that file automatically.
<pre>
source &lt;path to openstackrc file&gt;
cf-mgmt create-cluster \
   --keypair-name &lt;name of keypair created earlier&gt; \
   --admin-email &lt;your login for the quick-start&gt; \
   --admin-password &lt;your password for the quick-start&gt; \
   --load http://clients.als.hpcloud.com/1.2/config/trial.yml
</pre></li>
</li>
</ul>
<li>After the <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool creates the cluster, it displays the ALS Console URL. This URL will have the form <i>http://api.&lt;ipaddress&gt;.xip.io</i>  For example: <i>htttp://api.255.255.255.255.xip.io</i> </li><br /> 
<li>Enter the Console URL in your web browser to navigate to the Management Console.<br /<b>Note</b>: You may be "warned" that the Console has a self-signed certificate or that the site is "not trusted". These "warnings" can be safely ignored. </li><br />
<li>Log in to the Console using the email and password you specified when you created the cluster.</li>
</ol>
<p>Congratulations! You are now ready to begin deploying apps to your new micro-cloud environment.</p>

<p><form action="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/5" method="get">
    <input type="submit" value="Continue to the Next Step" 
         name="Submit" id="frm1_submit" />
</form></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
