<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4029">
<title>HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Installing the Horizon UI for ALS, DBaaS, and Marketplace</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.2"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Patrick F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.2"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/1.2/1.2devplatform.horizonui.install.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/horizonuiinstallation/--></p>
<p>This document shows how to install the Horizon UI for the <xref href="../../devplatform/1.2/helion/1.2index.dita" >Application Lifetime Service (ALS)</xref>, <xref href="../../devplatform/1.2/1.2devplatform.database-instance.dita" >Database as a Service (DBaaS)</xref>, and <xref href="../../devplatform/1.2/1.2devplatform.marketplace.install.dita" >Marketplace</xref> Services.</p>
<p>
      <note>You will need to download and install the Horizon UI separately for each service you
        wish to upgrade.</note>
    </p>
<section id="step-1-retrieve-the-als-dbaas-and-marketplace-service-updates-from-codn"> <title>Step 1: Retrieve the ALS, DBaaS, and Marketplace Service Updates from CODN</title>
<p>Use the <b>Helion Development Platform UI</b> to check CODN for a new Service Update for ALS, DBaaS, or Marketplace.</p>
<p>If there are new Service Updates for ALS, DBaaS, or Marketplace, retrieve them from CODN. This
        will retrieve the installation packages from CODN and push them into a container in Swift
        within your local cloud.</p>
</section>
<section id="step-2-install-the-als-dbaas-and-marketplace-service-updates"> <title>Step 2: Install the ALS, DBaaS, and Marketplace Service Updates</title>
</section>
<section id="preparation"> <title>Preparation</title>
<p>You will need the following pieces of information in order to run the service updates.</p>
<table pgwide="1">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="300" colsep="1"/>
<colspec colname="col2"/>
<thead>
<row>
    <entry>
      Identifier
    </entry>
    <entry>
      Description
    </entry>
  </row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
    <entry>
      BASE_NODE_IP
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The IP address of the base node for your Helion installation.
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      SEED_NODE_IP
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The IP address of the seed node for your Helion installation.
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      USERNAME
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The username of a cloud admin that has rights to perform a service update for the selected service (ALS, DBaaS, or Marketplace).
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      PASSWORD
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The password of a cloud admin that has rights to perform a service update for the selected service (ALS, DBaaS, or Marketplace).
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      HEAT_ADMIN_KEY
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The private key file for the <b>heat-admin</b> user. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
Usually available within the root user account on the seed node here: ~/.ssh/id_rsa
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      CONTAINER_NAME
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The Swift container that contains the service update. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
Defaults to <b>als-horizon-ui</b> for ALS. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
Defaults to <b>dbaas-horizon-ui</b> for DBaaS. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
Defaults to <b>murano-dashboard-horizon-ui</b> for Marketplace.
    </entry>
  </row>
<row>
    <entry>
      SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME
    </entry>
    <entry>
      The filename of the ALS, DBaaS, or Marketplace service update. <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->
This can typically can be found inside the above container in Swift.
    </entry>
  </row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="lets-get-to-it"> <title>Let's get to it!</title>
<p>a) SSH to the seed node of your cloud:</p>
<codeblock># SSH to the base node 
ssh USERNAME@BASE_NODE_IP

# Become root
sudo su (will prompt for password)

# SSH to the seed node 
ssh SEED_NODE_IP</codeblock>
<p>b) Ensure your environment has the proper credentials to perform the download from Swift:</p>
<codeblock># For ALS: Source the overcloud credentials to reach Swift 
export TE_DATAFILE="/root/tripleo/ce_env.json"
source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/overcloudrc
# For DBaaS and Marketplace: overcloud credentials needed here 
source admin_over_creds</codeblock>
<p>c) Use the Swift client to download the Service Update:</p>
<codeblock># List the contents of the Swift container for the desired service update
# ALS
swift list als-horizon-ui

# DBaaS
swift list dbaas-horizon-ui

# Marketplace
swift list murano-dashboard-horizon-ui

# Take note of the name of the file within each container 
# ex: SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz 

# Download the installation file 
swift download CONTAINER_NAME SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME </codeblock>
<p>d) Once the file is downloaded, unzip/tar the file:</p>
<codeblock>tar -zxvf SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME.tar.gz</codeblock>
<p>e) Go to the newly created folder and execute the install script, passing in the location of the private key of the <b>heat-admin</b> account:</p>
<codeblock># For ALS: Source undercloud creds from the same location as the overcloudrc
source /root/tripleo/tripleo-incubator/undercloudrc

# For DBaaS and Marketplace: Source undercloud creds 
source admin_under_creds 

# Fire up the install!
cd SERVICE_UPDATE_FILENAME 
./install.sh HEAT_ADMIN_KEY </codeblock>
</section>
<section id="step-3-configure-each-service"> <title>Step 3: Configure each service</title>
<p>Return to the <b>Helion Development Platform UI</b> and click on "Configure" to configure each service.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
