---
layout: trial-quick-start-devplatform-10
title: "HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial Troubleshooting"
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/troubleshooting/
product: devplatform2.0
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>
function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}
PageRefresh();
</script>

# HP Helion 1.2 Development Platform: Quick Start Developer Trial {#top}

Here are some tips for troubleshooting issues with the Quick Start Trial. If problems persist, the quickest solution is to just [terminate the cluster](/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/6) and repeat the installation process. To ensure all resources are properly released, terminate the cluster from the Horizon console. 

<table style="background-color: #FFF; vertical-align:top;">
<tr style="padding: 0;">
<td style="vertical-align:top;">
<p>

<p>
<a href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/helion/devplatform/1.2/ALS-developer-trial-quick-start/termination">Termination</a></p>
<p>
  <table border="0" style="background-color: #FFF;">
   <tr>
   <td style="background-color: #F0FFFF;">
    <b> Troubleshooting</b>
   </td>
   </tr>
   </table>
</p>
</td>

<td style="background-color: #F0FFFF; vertical-align: top;"><b>Troubleshooting</b>

<ul>
<li>Copy the provided commands into a text editor, change the values, and paste them back into the command-line client.</li><br /> 
<li>If the cluster creation process displays errors, make sure all the variables have a value and that the value is correct.</li><br />
<li>If you cannot connect to public cloud, ensure that your connection has no proxy settings.</li><br />
<li>If you receive the following error, return to the Horizon console and <a href="https://community.hpcloud.com/article/how-create-or-delete-network#create" target="_blank";>create a public-facing network</a>.
<pre>Error has occurred creating the cluster:<br />Parameter validation failed - No networks found. <br />Please add a network and rerun the tool.</pre></li><br />

<li>If you receive a timeout error while deploying, first verify that you have <a href="https://community.hpcloud.com/article/how-create-or-delete-network#create" target="_blank";>created a public-facing network</a>. <br />You may also change the default timeout value using the <i>wait time</i> command in the <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool. Example: <pre>--max-corenode-wait-duration "10m"</pre></li>
<li>If you want to deploy more than one cluster, you need to manually edit the cluster title and cluster prefix in the <i>trial.yml</i> file after you download it.</li><br />
<li>If you have used this HP Public Cloud account previously, make sure that you have at least 13 GB of  quota space available for deploying the trial cluster.</li><br />
<li>Check to make sure that you have at least three security groups.<br />In the <a href="https://horizon.hpcloud.com/" target="_blank">Horizon console</a>, click the <b>Project</b> panel, select <b>Compute</b> and then select <b>Access & Security</b>. You should see groups named <i>cluster1-SSH</i>, <i>cluster1-Router</i>, and <i>cluster1-Internal</i>.</li></li><br />
<li>To ensure that all resources are properly released, terminate the cluster using the Horizon console, not from the command line.</li><br />
<li>The <i>--keypair-name</i> value is case-sensitive. The value you enter must exactly match the value that was specified.</li><br>
<li>The <i>--admin-password</i> value must be at least 4 and no more than 20 characters long.
</ul>

<p><p><input type="button" value="Back" onclick="history.back(-1)" /></p></p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
