---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Managing Networks"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/networks/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--UNDER REVISION-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Managing Networks

A network is a pluggable, scalable and API-driven system for managing networks and IP addresses.

You can use the dashboards to create, delete, and configure your HP Helion OpenStack network and subnet(s). You can also manage the ports in your network.

How you interact with your network environment depends upon your user type, either an administrative user (admin) or a non-administrative user (user). 

**Note:** The admin can perform all of the user tasks in addition to the admin tasks.

## Managing your network as a user ##

As a user, you can work with the network(s) in the active project.

Access the networking commands using the **Networks** panel on the **Project** dashboard. 

The **Network** panel contains commands to view a visual representation of your network and to enable you to work with your network.

* [View your network](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/viewing/)
* [Create or delete a network](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/create/)
* [Enable or disable a network](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/enable/)

## Managing your network as an admin ##

As an admin user, you can work on all of the network(s) in your domain, regardless of which project the network is associated with.

In addition to all of the user tasks, you can also make a network a shared network and make a network accessible externally. 

Access the networking commands using the **System** panel on the **Admin** dashboard. 

* [Creating externally available networks](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/external/create/)
* [Add or remove a subnet to/from a Network](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/subnet/)
* [Create, Modify, or Delete a port on a Network](/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/ports/)

<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>


----
