<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>


<!DOCTYPE topic   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >


<topic id="jow1404333564380" xml:lang="en-us">


    <!-- Modification History





 -->


    <title >Network Requirements</title>


    <shortdesc >The networking environment of the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade incorporates up to


        five types of network: the internal management network, the OAM network, one or more


        provider networks, an optional infrastructure network, and an optional board management


        network. Operational requirements for each network are described in the following


        sections.</shortdesc>


    <prolog>


        <author >Pedro Sanchez</author>


    </prolog>


    <body>


        <section id="section_N1001F_N1001C_N10001" >


            <title >PXE Network</title>


            <p >The PXE network must be implemented as a single, dedicated, Layer 2


                broadcast domain for the exclusive use of each HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade


                cluster. Sharing of this network by more than one HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade


                cluster is not a supported configuration.</p>


            <p >During the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade software installation


                process, several network services such as BOOTP, DHCP, and PXE, are expected to run


                over the PXE network. These services are used to bring up the different hosts to an


                operational state. Therefore, it is mandatory that this network be operational and


                available in advance, to ensure a successful installation.</p>


            <p >On each host, the PXE network can be implemented using a 1Gb or 10 Gb


                Ethernet port. In either case, requirements for this port are:</p>


            <ul id="ul_uh1_pqs_hp">


                <li >


                    <p > it must be capable of PXE-booting</p>


                </li>


                <li >


                    <p >can be used by the motherboard as a primary boot device</p>


                </li>


            </ul>


        </section>


        <section><title>Cloud Management Network</title>


         <p>This network must be implemented as a single, dedicated, Layer2 broadcase domain for the  exclusive use of each 


            HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade cluster. Sharing of this network by more than one HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade cluster 


            is not a supported configuration.  This is typically configured by installer as a VLAN sub interface on PXE network. 


            Allows inter service communication, configuration on this network.</p>


        </section>


        <section id="section_N10030_N1001C_N10001" >


            <title >Infrastructure Network</title>


            <p >The infrastructure network must be implemented as a single,


                dedicated, Layer 2 broadcast domain for the exclusive use of each HPE Helion


                OpenStack Carrier Grade cluster. Sharing of this network by more than one HPE Helion


                OpenStack Carrier Grade cluster is not a supported configuration.</p>


            <p >The infrastructure network can be implemented as a 10 Gb Ethernet


                network. In its absence, all infrastructure traffic is carried over the internal


                management network.</p>


        </section>


        <section id="section_N10041_N1001C_N10001" >


            <title >DCM Network</title>


            <p >You should ensure that the following services are available on the


                DCM (Data center management network) Network and available through the CLM


                Network:</p>


            <dl>


                <dlentry >


                    <dt >DNS Service</dt>


                    <dd >


                        <p >Needed to facilitate the name resolution of servers reachable on the OAM Network. </p>


                        <p >The HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade can operate without a configured DNS


                            service. However,  a DNS service should be in place to ensure that links


                            to external references in the current and future versions of the web


                            administration interface work as expected.</p>


                    </dd>


                </dlentry>


                <dlentry >


                    <dt >NTP Service</dt>


                    <dd >


                        <p >The Network Time Protocol (NTP) can be optionally used by the HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade controller


       nodes to synchronize their local clocks with a reliable external time reference. However, it


       is strongly suggested that this service be available, among other things, to ensure that


       system-wide log reports present a unified view of the day-to-day operations.</p>


                        <p >The HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade compute nodes always use the controller nodes as the de-facto time server for the


       entire HPE Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade cluster. </p>


                    </dd>


                </dlentry>


            </dl>


        </section>


        <section id="section_N1007A_N1001C_N10001" >


            <title >Provider Network</title>


            <p >There are no specific requirements for network services to be available on the provider


    network. However, you must ensure that all network services required by the guests running in


    the compute nodes are available. For configuration purposes, the compute nodes themselves are


    entirely served by the services provided by the controller nodes over the internal management


    network.</p>


        </section>


        <section id="section_N100A2_N1001F_N10001" >


            <title >Board Management CTL (IPMI Control) Network</title>


                <p>External access to the


                board management network, the board management modules are assigned IP addresses


                accessible from the OAM network, and the controller uses the OAM network to connect


                to them.</p>


        </section>


    </body>


</topic>


