<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="HP2.0FWaaS">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0 FWaaS Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 FWaaS Configuration</p>
    <p>Firewall as a Service (FWaaS) is an advance networking service that introduces firewall
      feature set. This document describes the configuration process and requirements for the HP
      Helion OpenStack 2.0 Firewall as a Service module. </p>
    <p>
      <ul id="LBaaSlist">
        <li><xref href="fwaas.dita#HP2.0FWaaS/Prerequisites">Prerequisites</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="fwaas.dita#HP2.0FWaaS/Configuration">Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="fwaas.dita#HP2.0FWaaS/MoreInfo">More Information</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    
    <section id="Prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack must be installed. </p>
      
    </section>
    <section id="Configuration">
      <title>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 FWaaS Configuration</title>
      
      <p><b>Check for an enabled firewall.</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>You should check to determine if the firewall is enabled.  The output of the <i>neutron
            ext-list</i> should contain a firewall
          entry.<codeblock>neutron ext-list</codeblock></li>
        <li>Assuming the external network is already created by the admin, this command will show
          the external network. <codeblock>neutron net-list</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
      
      <p><b>Create required assets.</b></p>
      <p>Before creating firewalls, you will need to create a network, subnet, router, security
        group rules, start an instance and assign it a floating IP address.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Create the network, subnet and router.
          <codeblock>neutron net-create private
neutron subnet-create --name sub private 10.0.0.0/24 --gateway 10.0.0.1
neutron router-create router
neutron router-interface-add router sub
neutron router-gateway-set router ext-net</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create security group rules. Security group rules filter traffic at VM level.
          <codeblock>neutron security-group-rule-create default --protocol icmp
neutron security-group-rule-create default --protocol tcp --port-range-min 22 --port-range-max 22
neutron security-group-rule-create default --protocol tcp --port-range-min 80 --port-range-max 80</codeblock></li>
        <li>Boot a VM.
          <codeblock>NET=$(neutron net-list | awk '/private/ {print $2}')
nova boot --flavor 1 --image &lt;image&gt; --nic net-id=$NET vm1 --poll</codeblock></li>
        <li>Verify if the instance is ACTIVE and is assigned an IP address.
          <codeblock>nova list</codeblock></li>
        <li>Get the port id of the vm1 instance.
          <codeblock>fixedip=$(nova list | awk '/vm1/ {print $12}' | awk -F '=' '{print $2}' | awk -F ',' '{print $1}')
vmportuuid=$(neutron port-list | grep $fixedip | awk '{print $2}')</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create and associate a floating IP address to the vm1 instance.
          <codeblock>fluuid=$(neutron floatingip-create ext-net | awk 'FNR == 8{print $4}')
echo "Floating IP UUID = $fluuid"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Verify if the floating IP is assigned to the instance. The following command should show
          an assigned IP address in 172.16.0.0/16 range.<codeblock>nova show vm1</codeblock></li>
        <li>Verify if the instance is reachable from the external network. SSH into the instance
          from a node in (or has route to) the external network.
          <codeblock>ssh cirros@FIP-VM1
password: &lt;password&gt;</codeblock></li>
       </ol>
      
      <p><b>Create and attach the firewall.</b></p>
      <note>By default, an internal "drop all" rule is enabled in IP tables if none of the defined
        rules match the real-time data packets.</note>
      <ol>
        <li>Create new firewall rules using <codeph>firewall-rule-create</codeph> command and
          providing the protocol, action (allow, deny) and name for the new rule. This example
          allows icmp and ssh while denying access to http. See the <codeph>neutron</codeph>
          command-line reference under <xref href="fwaas.dita#HP2.0FWaaS/MoreInfo">more information</xref>
          on additional options such as source IP, destination IP, source port and destination
          port.<codeblock>neutron firewall-rule-create --protocol icmp --action allow --name allow-icmp
neutron firewall-rule-create --protocol tcp --destination-port 80 --action deny --name deny-http
neutron firewall-rule-create --protocol tcp --destination-port 22 --action allow --name allow-ssh</codeblock></li>
        <li>Once the rules are created, create the firewall policy by using the <codeph>firewall-policy-create</codeph> command with the 
          <codeph>--firewall-rules</codeph> option and rules to include in quotes, followed by the name of the new policy.  The order of the 
          rules is important.
          <codeblock>neutron firewall-policy-create --firewall-rules "allow-icmp deny-http allow-ssh" policy-fw</codeblock></li>
        <li>Finish the firewall creation by using the <codeph>firewall-create</codeph> command, the policy name and the new name you want to
          give to your new firewall.
          <codeblock>neutron firewall-create policy-fw --name user-fw</codeblock></li>
        <li>You can view the details of your new firewall by using the
            <codeph>firewall-show</codeph> command and the name of your firewall. This will verify
          that the status of the firewall is
          ACTIVE.<codeblock>neutron firewall-show user-fw</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
      
      <p><b>Verify the FWaaS is functional.</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>Since allow-icmp firewall rule is set you can ping the floating IP address of the
          instance from the external network.<codeblock>ping &lt;FIP-VM1></codeblock></li>
        <li>Similarly, you can connect via ssh to the instance due to the allow-ssh firewall
          rule.<codeblock>ssh cirros@&lt;FIP-VM1>
password: &lt;password></codeblock></li>
        <li>Run a web server on vm1 instance that listens over port 80, accepts requests and sends a WELCOME response.
          <codeblock>$ vi webserv.sh
            
#!/bin/ash
            
MYIP=$(/sbin/ifconfig eth0|grep 'inet addr'|awk -F: '{print $2}'| awk '{print $1}');
while true; do
  echo -e "HTTP/1.0 200 OK\r\n\r\nWelcome to $MYIP" | sudo nc -l -p 80
done
            
# Give it Exec rights
$ chmod 755 webserv.sh
            
# Execute the script
$ ./webserv.sh</codeblock></li>
        <li>You should expect to see curl fail over port 80 because of the deny-http firewall rule.
          If curl succeeds, the firewall is not blocking incoming http requests.
          <codeblock>curl -vvv &lt;FIP-VM1></codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
    
    <section>
      <note type="warning">When using reference implementation, new networks, FIPs and routers
        created after the Firewall creation will not be automatically updated with firewall rules.
        Thus, execute the firewall-update command by passing the current and new router Ids such
        that the rules are reconfigured across all the routers (both current and new). <p>For
          example if router-1 is created before and router-2 is created after the firewall
          creation</p>
        <codeblock>$ neutron firewall-update —router &lt;router-1-id&gt; —router &lt;router-2-id&gt; &lt;firewall-name&gt;</codeblock>
      </note>
      
           
     </section>
    <section id="MoreInfo">
      <title>More Information</title>
      <p>For more information on the neutron command-line interface (CLI) and firewalls, see the OpenStack networking command-line client
        reference: <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html" scope="external" format="html"></xref></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
