<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="HP2.0LBaaS">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0 Multiple External Network
    Configuration</title>
  <body>
    <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 Multiple External Network Configuration</p>
    <p>This document describes the configuration process and requirements for the HP Helion
      OpenStack 2.0 Multiple External Network.</p>
    <p>  
      
      <ul id="LBaaSlist">
        <li><xref href="lbaas.dita#HP2.0LBaaS/Prerequisites">Prerequisites</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="lbaas.dita#HP2.0LBaaS/Configuration">Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="lbaas.dita#HP2.0LBaaS/MoreInfo">More Information</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    
    <section id="Prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack must be installed. </p>
      
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="Configuration">
      <title>Configuration</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 Multiple External Network Configuration</p>
      
      
      <p>Neutron provider VLANs are neutron networks that map directly to an 802.1Q VLAN in the 
        cloud provider’s physical network infrastructure. There are four aspects to provider vlan 
        configuration:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Network infrastructure configuration (e.g. the top-of-rack switch)</li>
        <li>Server networking configuration (for compute nodes and neutron network nodes)</li>
        <li>Neutron configuration file settings</li>
        <li>Create the corresponding network objects in Neutron</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The physical network infrastructure must be configured to convey the provider VLAN traffic as 
        tagged VLANs to the cloud compute nodes and neutron network nodes. Configuration of the physical 
        network infrastructure is outside the scope of the HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 software.</p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 automates the server networking configuration and the Neutron
        configuration based on information in the cloud definition. To configure the system for
        provider VLANs, specify the<i> neutron.networks.vlan</i> tag with a
          <i>provider-physical-network</i> attribute on one or more network groups. For example
        (some attributes omitted for brevity):</p>
      <codeblock>network-groups:
        
  - name: NET_GROUP_A
  tags:
  - neutron.networks.vlan:
     provider-physical-network: physnet1
        
  - name: NET_GROUP_B
  tags:
  - neutron.networks.vlan:
     provider-physical-network: physnet2</codeblock>
      
      <p>A network group is associated with a server network interface via an interface model. 
        For example (some attributes omitted for brevity):</p>
      <codeblock>interface-models:
  - name: INTERFACE_SET_X
    network-interfaces:
      - device:
        name: bond0
    network-groups:
      - NET_GROUP_A
    - device:
      name: eth3
    network-groups:
      - NET_GROUP_B
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>A network group used for provider VLANs may contain only a single HOS network, because that 
        VLAN must span all compute nodes and any neutron network nodes/controllers 
        (i.e. it is a single L2 segment). The HOS network must be defined with tagged-vlan false, 
        otherwise a linux vlan network interface will be created. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>networks:
        
  - name: NET_A
    tagged-vlan: false
    network-group: NET_GROUP_A
        
  - name: NET_B
    tagged-vlan: false
    network-group: NET_GROUP_B</codeblock>
      
      <p>When the cloud is deployed, HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 will create the appropriate bridges on
        the servers, and set the appropriate attributes in the Neutron configuration files (e.g.
        bridge_mappings).</p>
      <p>After the cloud has been deployed, create Neutron network objects for each provider VLAN. 
        For example, using the Neutron CLI:</p>
      <codeblock>neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet1 --provider:segmentation_id 101 mynet101
neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet2 --provider:segmentation_id 234 mynet234</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section id="MoreInfo">
      <title>More Information</title>For more information on the neutron
      command-line interface (CLI), see the OpenStack networking command-line client reference:
        <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"
        scope="external" format="html"/></section>
  </body>
</topic>
