<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="neutron_overview">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Networking Service (Neutron)
    Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>HP Helion OpenStack Networking is a virtual networking service that leverages the OpenStack
      Neutron service to provide network connectivity and addressing to HP Helion OpenStack Compute
      service devices.</p>
    <p>The Networking service also provides an API to configure and manage a variety of network
      services.</p>
    <p>You can use the Networking service to connect guest servers or you can define and configure
      your own virtual network topology.</p>
    <p>You can also use the Networking service to identify the actual IP address of a malicious
      user, if you know the user's NAT address. For more information, see <xref
        href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.networking-maskedIP.dita">Tracking masked IP
        addresses when using network address translation (NAT)</xref>.</p>
    <section id="installing-the-networking-service">
      <title>Installing the Networking service</title>
      <p>Helion Network Administrators are responsible for planning for the Neutron networking
        service, and once installed, to configure the service to meet the needs of their cloud
        network users.</p>
      <p>For information, see <xref
          href="../../commercial/GA1/neutron/1.1commercial_neutron-intro.dita">Networking Operation
          (Neutron) Administrator Pre and Post Installation Tasks</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="working-with-the-networking-service">
      <title>Working with the Networking service</title>
      <p>To perform tasks using the Networking service, you can use the dashboard, API or CLI.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="UI">
      <title>Using the dashboards</title>
      <p>You can use the <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.how-works.dita">HP
          Helion OpenStack Dashboard</xref> to work with the Networking service.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="API">
      <title>Using the API</title>
      <p>You can use a low-level, raw REST API to access the Networking service. See the <xref
          href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-networking-v2.html" scope="external"
          format="html">OpenStack Networking API v2.0 Reference</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="cli">
      <title>Using the CLI</title>
      <p>You can use any of several command-line interface software to access Networking. See the
          <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"
          scope="external" format="html">OpenStack Command Line Interface Reference</xref>.</p>
      <p>For more information on installing the CLI, see <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html" scope="external"
          format="html">Install the OpenStack command-line clients</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="for-more-information">
      <title>For more information</title>
      <p>For information on how to operate your cloud we suggest you read the <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/ops/" scope="external" format="html">OpenStack Operations
          Guide</xref>. The <i>Architecture</i> section contains useful information about how an
        OpenStack Cloud is put together. However, the HP Helion OpenStack takes care of these
        details for you. The <i>Operations</i> section contains information on how to manage the
        system.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
