---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /als/v1/admin/reference/known-issues/
product: devplatform1.0
title: "HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Known Issues"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.0
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: Known Issues {#known-issues}

[See the Helion 1.1 Development Platform version of this page](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/known-issues/)

## Buildpack config\_vars Deprecated {#buildpack-config-vars-deprecated}


-   [Legacy Buildpack and Environment
    Variables](#legacy-buildpack-and-environment-variables)
-   [Service Gateway Log Errors in Maintenance
    Mode](#service-gateway-log-errors-in-maintenance-mode)
-   [Nodes with FATAL or perpetually STARTING
    processes](#nodes-with-fatal-or-perpetually-starting-processes)
-   [Avoiding App Reliance on IP
    Addresses](#avoiding-app-reliance-on-ip-addresses)
-   [Community Forums](#community-forums)

Buildpacks used to rely on the `config_vars` feature
of *bin/release* to set environment variables, but this has been
deprecated by Heroku.

The replacement mechanism is to [create a shell script in
\$HOME/.profile.d](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/profiled) to
set environment variables. This mechanism is fully supported in Application Lifecycle Service
/ Cloud Foundry v2, and is used by all of the built-in buildpacks.

Legacy Buildpack and Environment Variables[](#legacy-buildpack-and-environment-variables "Permalink to this headline")
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

When using the [*Legacy
Buildpack*](/als/v1/user/deploy/buildpack/#buildpacks), environment
variable values defined in *manifest.yml* (`env:`
block) cannot be updated without re-pushing the application with new
settings. Changes to variables made in the Management Console will be
overwritten by the original ones defined at push when the application is
restarted.

To modify custom environment variables, re-push the application after
changing the values in *manifest.yml*.

Service Gateway Log Errors in Maintenance Mode[](#service-gateway-log-errors-in-maintenance-mode "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With Application Lifecycle Service set in [*Maintenance
Mode*](/als/v1/admin/console/customize/#console-settings), all "\_gateway"
processes will report the following error once per minute:

    Failed registering with cloud controller, status=503

This is normal, and can be safely ignored. The service nodes will
reconnect once the Controller is taken out of Maintenance Mode.

Nodes with FATAL or perpetually STARTING processes[](#nodes-with-fatal-or-perpetually-starting-processes "Permalink to this headline")
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the Core node of an Application Lifecycle Service cluster is offline for more than 90
seconds, `kato status` will show processes on other
nodes (systail, apptail, router and others) in a FATAL or (hung)
STARTING state. These processes will not automatically reconnect to the
Core node.

To correct this, run `kato start` (for FATAL
processes) or `kato restart` (for STARTING
processes) on all affected nodes.

Avoiding App Reliance on IP Addresses[](#avoiding-app-reliance-on-ip-addresses "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cluster configurations make use of private IP addresses for identifying
the various cluster nodes. Best practice is to avoid the literal use of
these addresses wherever possible, as these addresses are subject to
change with cluster configuration.

If the VM instance can locally resolve a hostname rather than an IP
address, it's generally best practice to use the hostname.

If not, Application Lifecycle Service provides various [*environment
variables*](/als/v1/user/reference/environment/#environment-variables)
so that applications do not need to hardcode them at install time. Some
examples are `VCAP_SERVICES` and `DATABASE_URL`. We strongly encourage their use.

A known issue is that some applications have install procedures that
can't be configured to make use of these variables. If the server that's
providing the app's database (mysql\_gateway/node for example) gets
moved to another location, the only way for the app to become aware of
the new credentials is by restaging the app as noted below. A restart
isn't sufficient.

Choose one of the following according to need, either:

    helion delete -n
    helion push -n

or:

    helion delete -n
    helion update -n

Another possible workaround in such cases is to write a script that will
pull the credentials from `VCAP_SERVICES` and update
the app's config as needed, then add this script to the pre-running
hooks.

Community Forums[](#community-forums "Permalink to this headline")
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Please keep up to date with the latest Known Issues, FAQs and
announcements in our [online Application Lifecycle Service
forums](https://community.dev.hp.com/t5/Forum/bd-p/cloud_board).


