---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/admin/reference/troubleshoot/
product: devplatform
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Troubleshooting "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
role5: Network Administrator
role6: Systems Administrator 
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}
[See the Helion 1.0 Development Platform version of this page](/als/v1/admin/reference/troubleshoot/)

- [Server Log Files](#server-log-files)
-   [health\_manager.log](#health-manager-log)
-   [Inspecting User Apps as an Admin](#inspecting-user-apps-as-an-admin)
-   [System Diagnosis](#system-diagnosis)
-   [Specific Error Cases](#specific-cases)

##Server Log Files {#server-log-files}
If you need to troubleshoot or monitor Application Lifecycle Service logs with a third party,
they can be found in the \~/helion/logs/\* directory on the Application Lifecycle Service
server.

These logs are under daily log rotation with the use of
[logrotate](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man8/logrotate.8.html).
Up to three days worth of compressed logs are kept before deletion of
the oldest archive.

To modify the log rotation, edit the */etc/logrotate.d/helion* file as
needed. To disable Application Lifecycle Service log rotation, delete the file or move it to
another folder.

## health\_manager.log {#health-manager-log}

The `health_manager` process is responsible for
monitoring containers and making sure they are relaunched if there's a
problem. The *health\_manager.log* file contains information on all
application instances running on the system.

Sometimes you may see "CRASHED" notifications such as this:

    [2013-04-07 22:42:01.329571] hm - pid=2701 tid=5b3b fid=5cbf  DEBUG -- healthmanager.status: {"droplet":119,"state":"CRASHED"}

A CRASHED status means that the app crashed within the container and the
health\_manager is no longer able to find a running process that looks
like that app (e.g. for a Node app, the node process isn't running; for
a Java app, there is no Java process, etc.). Most of the time this is a
problem with the app within the container.

Cross reference the droplet ID in the *dea.log* or *stager.log* files to
find the application name, then check the logs for the application (e.g.
'helion crashlogs'). By far the most common cause of crashing apps is
a lack of memory, allocating more memory to an app is a good first step
to see if this fixes the problem.

##Inspecting User Apps as an Admin {#inspecting-user-apps-as-an-admin}

Application Lifecycle Service Admin accounts have root-like privileges. They can inspect all
user applications and service instances running on the system.

The helion group \<command-users-groups-limits\> command can be used
by admin accounts to inspect applications and service instances for any
group or user. For example:

    helion group jane.doe@example.com

This sets the scope of subsequent operations to the specified user. Use
`helion group --reset` to return to the scope of
the logged-in admin user.

##System Diagnosis {#system-diagnosis}

There may be cases where resolving an issue requires a complete view of
the system metrics. This functionality is provided by the
`helion admin report` command. It generates a
single file (by default named *\<target\>-report.tgz*) that can be
provided to the Application Lifecycle Service support team for analysis:

    helion admin report

The file is several megabytes in size and will take a few seconds to
generate. Send it, along with a detailed description of your problem, to
HP at: [als-support@hp.com](mailto:als-support@hp.com)

## Specific Error Cases {#specific-cases}

**When pushing an app, the Application Lifecycle Service Client reports OK but app isn't running**

The final output from pushing an app should look like:

    Staging Application: OK
    Starting Application: OK

If the app is being pushed to multiple instances, the client waits
until at least one instance is running, and exits at that point (it
does not wait until all instances are active). If afterwards you run
`helion apps` and find the Health status at 0%,
it is because the app crashed after starting successfully, not because
the Application Lifecycle Service client reported incorrectly.

**DNS queries returning "connection refused"**

This error is reported when the Application Lifecycle Service server does not have an IP
Address. To investigate and resolve, try the following:

-   Verify the ARP tables on the hypervisor host, and on the Application Lifecycle Service server through its [tty console](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/glossary/#term-tty-console):

        arp -n

-   Check that the DHCP client is running:

        pgrep dhclient
        grep dhclient /var/log/syslog

-   Connect to the DHCP server and verify that it is receiving client requests from the Application Lifecycle Service server.

-   If your network is statically configured, assign an IP address on the Application Lifecycle Service server by editing the [interfaces](http://http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/utopic/en/man5/interfaces.5.html) file:

        /etc/network/interfaces
