<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic8359">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: AOK Authentication Server</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>AOK is Application Lifecycle Service's authentication management service (replacing Cloud
      Foundry's UAA Server). It issues tokens via OAuth2 for client applications such as the
        <b>helion</b> client and the ALS Console. AOK can connect to other back-end SSO services
      such as LDAP by using different <xref href="#topic8359/strategies" format="dita"
        >Strategies</xref>.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/web">End User Login: Web</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/client">End User Login: Client</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/strategies">Strategies</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/configuration">Configuration</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/activedir">Active Directory Example Settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/user-management">User Management</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/first-admin-user-setup">First Admin User Setup</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic8359/regular-ldap-user-setup">Regular LDAP User Setup</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="web"> <title>End User Login: Web</title>
<p>Users log in to the web-based ALS Management Console as they would with any other web application. The ALS Console checks with the AOK endpoint (e.g. https://aok.helion.example.com) in the background.</p>
</section>
<section id="client"> <title>End User Login: Client</title>
<p>If the strategy has been changed to something other than <b>builtin</b> (see <xref
          href="#topic8359/strategies" format="dita">Strategies</xref>) then users connecting with
        the <xref href="../../user/client/client_index.dita">ALS
          command-line client</xref> should be aware that:</p>
<ul>
<li>The user must enter identifiers in the format expected by the <xref type="section" href="#topic8359/strategies">strategy</xref> used by AOK (e.g. username or email
address).</li>
<li>When using an existing authentication token to log in as a second user (for example, an admin connecting as another user), use the second user's username, <b>not</b> the identifier used by AOK's strategy.</li>
</ul>
<p>These caveats also apply when using other Cloud-Foundry-compatible clients.</p>
</section>
<section id="strategies"> <title>Strategies</title>
<p>The term <b>strategy</b> refers to the method used to authenticate users.
There are currently two supported strategies:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>builtin</b>: The default builtin strategy uses a local database of
users and passwords to authenticate.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
            <b>ldap</b>: The ldap strategy authenticates using the LDAP server specified in <xref
              href="#topic8359/configuration" format="dita"><i>kato config</i></xref> . Any user
            that can successfully authenticate with the LDAP server will be allowed to use
            Application Lifecycle Service and will have a (non-admin) user account created for them
            automatically. The LDAP server must return an email address for the user to allow them
            to log in to Application Lifecycle Service. AOK will look for the email address under
            the <b>mail</b>, <b>email</b>, and <b>userPrincipalName</b> attributes.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>LDAP groups are not currently supported as a visible construct in the Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<p>The use key in the configuration controls the strategy that AOK will
use. This value must correspond exactly to one of the supported strategy
names.</p>
</section>
<section id="configuration"> <title>Configuration</title>
  <p>To configure AOK, set the following keys in the AOK config using the <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config" type="section" >kato
config set</xref> commands:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>strategy:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>use: set to either <b>builtin</b> (the default) or <b>ldap</b>. The <b>builtin</b> strategy requires no further modification. The <b>ldap</b> strategy requires setting options in the corresponding block below.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>ldap:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<p>host: hostname or IP of the LDAP server</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>port: LDAP server port, typically 389</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>method: plain, ssl, or tls</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>base: list of domain components (e.g. 'dc=example, dc=com')</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>uid: LDAP attribute name for the user name that will used in
the login form. Active Directory (AD) is typically
'sAMAccountName' or 'UserPrincipalName', while OpenLDAP is
'uid'.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>email: the LDAP attribute containing the user's fully
qualified email address. An email address attribute is
necessary for AOK to work properly with the cloud
controller. This may be a scalar attribute or an array of
attributes to search. The default is shown. The first
non-null attribute will be used (AOK will not validate that
this is an email address). The default attributes are:</p>

<ul>
<li>mail</li>
<li>email</li>
<li>userPrincipalName</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>bind_dn: (optional) credentials for user lookup (e.g.
'cn=Administrator,cn=Users,dc=example,dc=com'). LDAP servers
that allow anonymous bind will not require this setting.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>password: (optional) default credentials for user lookup</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>try_sasl: (optional) when set to true attempts a SASL
connection to the LDAP server</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>sasl_mechanims: (optional) 'DIGEST-MD5' or 'GSS-SPNEGO'</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</section><section><title>Replace Usernames with Email Addresses</title>
<p>An additional 'name_proc' option in the 'ldap' block allows users to
enter email addresses instead of LDAP user names, matching the user name
entered with the format of the uid attributes. For example, value of
'sAMAccountName' in AD contains only the Windows user name. If your
users prefer using email to login, the following 'name_proc' value will
trim the email string down to just the Windows login name:</p>
<codeblock>Proc.new {|name| name.gsub(/@.*$/,'')}</codeblock>
<p>Value must be valid Ruby code. Since the provided code will be accepting
arbitrary user input, administrators are urged to use this setting only
when absolutely necessary, and to check the code thoroughly for possible
security implications.</p>
<p>To see the default AOK configuration (default settings) run the
command:</p>
<codeblock>kato config get aok</codeblock>
<p>Settings are nested as per the option list above. To set an option,
specify the full config path to that option. For example:</p>
<codeblock>kato config set aok strategy/ldap/base 'dc=yourdomain, dc=com'</codeblock>
<p>To add an attribute to the 'email' array:</p>
<codeblock>kato config push aok strategy/ldap/email "ADMailAcct"</codeblock>
<p>To set the entire array in one step, use the <codeph>--json</codeph> option:</p>
<codeblock>kato config set --json aok strategy/ldap/email '["mail","ADMailAcct", "email"]'</codeblock>
<!-- not supported in ALS
##LDAP Groups {#ldap}

With the LDAP strategy enabled, ALS can query LDAP groups to define which LDAP groups are authorized to use ALS and which LDAP groups get admin privileges.

###Groups for Authorization

To limit which LDAP groups get access to ALS, the following three options must be set in AOK's strategy/ldap settings:

- group\_query: The query to run to determine which groups a user belongs to (set in conjunction with group_attribute). For example:

        kato config set aok strategy/ldap/group_query '(&(objectClass=posixGroup)(memberUid=%{username}))'

    This queries for posixGroups that the user belongs to. %{username} is replaced with the value of the field specified by uid and %{dn} is replaced by the dn of the authenticated user.


- group\_attribute: The LDAP attribute to extract from the query above (requires a valid group_query setting). For example:

        kato config set aok strategy/ldap/group_attribute 'cn'
    
    This extracts the name of the group(s) returned by the group_query above if the group's 'cn' (common name) attribute contains its name.

- allowed\_groups: A list of LDAP groups that are allowed to access ALS. (requires **group\_attribute** and **group\_query** settings). For example:

        kato config set aok strategy/ldap/allowed_groups '["dev", "engineering"]'
    
    This would allow access to members of the 'dev' or 'engineering' groups only.

###Admin Groups

Members of certain LDAP groups can be granted admin accounts for ALS. This requires the following settings:

- group_query (as above)
- group_attribute (as above)
- admin_groups: A list of LDAP groups that get admin privileges. For example:

        kato config set aok strategy/ldap/admin_groups '["admins", "bosses"]'

    This command would automatically grant admin privileges to all members of the 'admins' and 'bosses' LDAP groups.

- allowed_groups is an option that can be specified if limiting regular-user-level access is also desired.

Individual Organizations for LDAP Users


As an alternative to putting new users in one default :ref:`Organization
<orgs-spaces>`, Stackato can be set to automatically create an new,
single-user Organization for each new LDAP user that logs in. This
simulates the behavior of older Stackato and Cloud Foundry systems where
individual users had their own quotas.

The new organizations have the same name as the user (which may be an
email address if ``use_email_for_username`` is set in AOK).

To enable this behavior, add the following settings to the
``cloud_controller_ng`` configuration:

* **uaa/new_user_strategy**: global (default) or individual. When set
  to ``individual`` creates a default org and space when an LDAP user
  logs in to the management console for the first time. If unset, the
  default (``global``) behavior described above is used.

* **uaa/new_user_strategies/individual**: contains the following
  sub-keys defining how new individual orgs are set up:
  
  * **quota_name**: name of the :ref:`quota plan
    <console-settings-quota-plans>` for the org. You should set up a new
    quota plan specifically for single-user orgs with limits appropriate
    to the number of users you plan to add to the system.
    
  * **space_name**: name of the default space created for each new user
    within their individual org.
  
  * **space_role**: role of the user in the created space. May be
    one of manager, auditor or developer (default). 

  * **organization_role**: The role of the user in the created
    organization - manager, billing_manager, auditor or user (default).

Use :ref:`kato config set <kato-command-ref-config>` to set these values,
for example::

  $ kato config set cloud_controller_ng uaa/new_user_strategy individual
  ...
  $ kato config set cloud_controller_ng uaa/new_user_strategies/individual/space_name dev
  
Restart the controller to make the configuration changes active::

  $ kato restart controller

Individual Organization Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A typical configuration for creating individual organizations might look
like this::

  $ kato config get cloud_controller_ng uaa
  
  uaa:
    url: https://aok.paas.example.com/uaa
    resource_id: cloud_controller
    symmetric_secret: jezmyCXJ45YWAqr4sG9hvsrlhwMHIK//drcBd76a+L4PMitJTAR4XZKvoUHSuDSL
    new_user_strategy: individual
    new_user_strategies:
      individual:
        space_name: default
        quota_name: single-user
        space_role: manager
        organization_role: manager

This creates a new organization for each LDAP user that logs in, makes
the user a manager of their org, creates a space called "default", and
makes the user a manager for that space.</pre>-->
</section>
<section id="activedir"> <title>Active Directory Example Settings</title>
<p>The following example shows what a typical AOK configuration might look like for an Active Directory server. This configuration:</p>
<ul>
<li>connects an Active Directory host called 'ad.example.com'</li>
<li>authenticates with the 'reader' account</li>
<li>queries the 'group' object</li>
<li>allows access to members of the 'developers' and 'admins' groups</li>
<li>
<p>gives an admin account to each member of the 'admins' group</p>

<codeblock>use: ldap
ldap:
  host: directory.example.com
  port: 389
  method: plain
  base: DC=directory,DC=example,DC=com
  uid: sAMAccountName
  email:
  - mail
  - email
  - userPrincipalName
  bind_dn: CN=reader,CN=admins,DC=example,DC=com
  password: passwordhere
  group_query: (&amp;(objectCategory=group)(member=%{dn}))
  group_attribute: cn
  allowed_groups:
  - developers
  - admins
  admin_groups:
  - admins</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
<p>See also <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa746468%28v=vs.85%29.aspx" scope="external" format="html" >Searching Active Directory</xref> (Microsoft Developer Network) and <xref href="https://www.google.com/support/enterprise/static/gapps/docs/admin/en/gads/admin/ldap.5.4.html" scope="external" format="html" >Common LDAP Queries</xref> (Google Apps Directory Sync Administration Guide) for more information on creating <i>group_query</i>.</p>
</section>
<section id="user-management"> <title>User Management</title>
<p>When using AOK with any strategy other than <b>builtin</b>, users in Application Lifecycle Service will be created automatically for any user who successfully authenticates.</p>
<p>Administrators can still use the functions as before, but should be
aware of the following caveats:</p>
<ul>
<li>Admins may manually create users if they wish. This may be useful if
the admin wants to pre-assign users to groups in Application Lifecycle Service before
those users have logged in for the first time. The admin must create
the user with the same username that AOK will receive from the
strategy.</li>
<li>Passwords set while creating users or using the password-change
function will be disregarded - Application Lifecycle Service/AOK does not manage the
external authentication systems.</li>
<li>Admins may delete users, but the user will be recreated if they log
in again via AOK. If an admin wishes to prevent a user from using
Application Lifecycle Service, the user's login credentials should be revoked in the
external authentication system.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="first-admin-user-setup"> <title>First Admin User Setup</title>
<p>When setting up an Application Lifecycle Service system using AOK, complete the "Set Up First
Admin User" form shown by the ALS Management Console before configuring
LDAP authentication. This creates an administrative user and changes
the password of the 'helion' user on the VM to match whatever was
entered in the form.</p>
<p>You may use either a temporary username (e.g. "firstuser") which will be
deleted later, or use the LDAP username you will ultimately use once AOK
is configured.</p>
<p>Once the first user has been created:</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the micro cloud VM or Core node as the 'helion' user (with the password set previously)</li>
<li>
          <xref href="#topic8359/configuration" format="dita">Configure AOK</xref> to use LDAP</li>
<li> Set the <codeph>admin_user</codeph> key with the desired LDAP admin
            username:<codeblock>kato config set aok strategy/ldap/admin_user &lt;username&gt;</codeblock><p>This
            user will be granted admin privileges when logging in for the first time.</p></li>
<li>If you created a temporary admin user, delete it at this point.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="regular-ldap-user-setup"> <title>Regular LDAP User Setup</title>
<p>New users logging in to the ALS Console for the first time using LDAP authentication will not be a member of any organization (and won't be able to do anything). An admin will have to add each user to an organization after their initial login.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
