<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic7767">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Docker and Fence</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Docker and Fence</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>Application Lifecycle Service's <xref
        href="../reference/architecture.dita#topic4407/architecture-droplet-execution-agents"
        type="section">DEA role</xref> runs Linux containers to isolate user applications during
      staging and at runtime. Management of these application containers is handled by the
        <i>fence</i> process, which in turn uses <xref href="http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/"
        scope="external" format="html">Docker</xref> to create and destroy Linux containers on
      demand.</p>
    <p>Once Docker has been set up and configured, see the documentation on<xref
        href="../../user/deploy/languages/docker_apps.dita#topic_l4n_y3n_xs">deploying Docker
        apps</xref>.</p>
    <ul>
      <li><xref type="section" href="#topic7767/appdeploy">Docker Apps and Deployment
          Permission</xref></li>
      <li><xref type="section" href="#topic7767/storagelimits">Docker Image Storage Limits</xref></li>
      <li><xref type="section" href="#topic7767/modifying-or-updating-the-container-image">Modifying
          or Updating the Container Image</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic7767/admin-hooks">Admin Hooks</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic7767/creating-a-docker-registry">Creating a Docker
          Registry</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic7767/docker-privileged-containers">Privileged
          Containers</xref>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <section id="appdeploy">
      <title>Docker Apps and Deployment Permission</title>
      <p>Docker Apps are web applications that can be pushed using ALS in the same way as regular
        "staged" web applications.  Administrators can control which users have this ability, which
        images are allowed, and how much space is allocated on the Controller nodes for storing
        images.</p>
      <p>Since arbitrary Docker images could potentially expose a root user and other escalated
        privileges, you should restrict the ability to push Docker images to:</p>
      <ul id="ol_ggv_ybg_qs">
        <li>a trusted group of users in an Organization with <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions
          enabled</li>
        <li>a trusted list of Docker images, namespaces, or registry servers</li>
        <li>a trusted group deploying from a trusted list</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The <xref href="../console/console_index.dita">Settings</xref> view in the web management console exposes
        these settings, but you can also set them using the <xref
          href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config">kato config</xref>
        command. The following settings are available in the <codeph>cloud_controller_ng</codeph>
        group:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>docker_apps/require_sudo</dt>
          <dd>Boolean (default TRUE) Limits Docker image deployment to Organizations with
              <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions enabled in the Quota Plan.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>docker_apps/allow_any_registry</dt>
          <dd><note type="warning">Allowing any user to deploy Docker images without restrictions is
              not recommended. Docker image deployment should be limited to either a trusted group
              of users, trusted image sources, or both.</note>Boolean (default TRUE) Let users
            deploy Docker images from <b>any</b> registry server. </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>docker_apps/allowed_registries</dt>
          <dd>List (default empty) A list of servers, namespaces, or images that users are allowed
            to deploy. Entries are specified in the standard format accepted by the
              <codeph>docker</codeph> client, for example,
              <codeph>user:pass@domain.com:port/namespace/repo:tag</codeph>. Credentials specified
            in the Allowed Docker Registries list are used as defaults when the user requests a
            matching image name without credentials. <note>If the registry credentials contain the
              '@' or ':' characters, <xref
                href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding#Percent-encoding_reserved_characters"
                format="html" scope="external">URL encode</xref> the username or password strings as
              needed.</note></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="storagelimits">
      <title>Docker Image Storage Limits</title>
      <p>ALS  fetches images from the Docker Hub or the specified repository and keeps copies in a
        local registry server on the controller so that subsequent deployments using any of the
        downloaded layers can be done more quickly. A <codeph>cron</codeph> job runs periodically to
        keep the local registry server from growing too large. The size limit is defined in the
        following setting in <codeph>kato config</codeph>:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>cloud_controller_ng docker_apps/storage_limit_mb</dt>
          <dd>Int (default 10240) Size limit of the cloud controller's local Docker registry server.
            This value should be adjusted based on the disk space available on the cloud controller
              node(s).</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="modifying-or-updating-the-container-image">
      <title>Modifying or Updating the Container Image</title>
      <p>Application containers are created from a base Docker image (a template used to create
        Linux containers). Admins can create new images to add specific software required by
        applications or update operating system packages.</p>
      <p>See also <xref href="../best-practices/best_practices_index.dita#topic16169/upgrade-docker"
          type="section">Upgrade the Docker Image</xref> to modify the Docker base image
          <b>without</b> changing <i>kato config</i>.</p>
      <p>To create a new base image for Application Lifecycle Service to use for application
        containers, perform the following steps <b>on all nodes running the DEA role</b>:</p>
      <ol>
        <li> Start with an empty working
          directory:<codeblock>mkdir ~/newimg
cd ~/newimg</codeblock></li>
        <li> Check which image Application Lifecycle Service is currently using as an app container
          template:<codeblock>kato config get fence docker/images
helion/stack/alsek</codeblock></li>
        <li> Create a <xref href="http://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/" scope="external"
            format="html">Dockerfile</xref> which inherits the current Docker image and then runs an
          update or installation command. For example:<codeblock>FROM helion/stack-alsek:kato-patched
RUN apt-get -y install libgraphite2-dev</codeblock><ul>
            <li>
              <xref href="http://docs.docker.com/reference/builder#from" type="section"
                scope="external" format="html">FROM</xref>: inherits the environment and installed
              software from the latest patched version of the app image.</li>
            <li>
              <xref href="http://docs.docker.com/reference/builder#run" type="section"
                scope="external" format="html">RUN</xref>: specifies arbitrary commands to run
              before saving the image.</li>
            <li>
              <xref href="http://docs.docker.com/reference/builder#add" type="section"
                scope="external" format="html">ADD</xref>: could be used to copy files into the
              image. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li> Build the image. Set the maintainer's name and an image
            name:<codeblock>sudo docker build -rm -t exampleco/newimg . </codeblock><note>If the new
            image is simply an updated version of the default base image, you can tag the image
            <codeblock>helion/stack-alsek:latest</codeblock> as described in the <xref
              type="section"
              href="../best-practices/best_practices_index.dita#topic16169/bestpractices-ubuntu-security">Ubuntu
              Security Updates</xref>, and skip the following step.</note></li><li>Configure Application Lifecycle Service to use the new image. This step only needs to be done
          once, as the configuration change is shared with all
          nodes.<codeblock>kato config set fence docker/images exampleco/newimg
WARNING: Assumed type string
exampleco/newimg</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="admin-hooks"><title>Admin Hooks</title><p>If an administrator wants to run
        arbitrary commands in all application containers, global admin hooks can be set to run
        immediately after corresponding user-specified deployment hooks (pre-staging, post-staging,
        pre-running) set in application <xref href="../../user/deploy/manifestyml.dita"
          >manifest.yml</xref> files.</p><p>These hooks must be:</p><ul>
        <li>plain bash scripts with the executable bit set (<codeph>chmod +x</codeph>)</li>
        <li>named <i>pre-staging</i>, <i>post-staging</i>, or <i>pre-running</i>
        </li>
        <li>installed in <i>/etc/helion/hooks</i> within the Docker image</li>
      </ul><p>For example, a pre-running admin hook might look like
        this:</p><codeblock>#!/bin/sh
export PRE_RUN_DATE=`date`
export EXAMPLECO_KEY="3A0fwPwUftDu0FEzmhN8yJkvM1vS6A"
if [ -z "$NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY" ]; then
  echo "setting default New Relic key"
  export NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY="bdb9b44e8n4411d8bf39870f1919927d79cr0f1r"
fi
export HELION_HOOK_ENV=PRE_RUN_DATE,EXAMPLECO_KEY
sudo /usr/sbin/nrsysmond-config --set license_key=$NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY
sudo /etc/init.d/newrelic-sysmond start</codeblock><note>
        The <codeph>HELION_HOOK_ENV</codeph> environment variable is needed to expose the specified
        variables in <codeph>helion ssh</codeph> sessions, in the application container's crontab,
        and in PHP applications using the Legacy buildpack. </note><p>The Dockerfile for creating
        the image (see <xref type="section"
          href="#topic7767/modifying-or-updating-the-container-image">Modifying or Updating the
          Container Image</xref> ) would use the ADD directive to put a local <i>hooks</i> directory
        in the Docker image's <i>/etc/helion/</i>
        directory:</p><codeblock>FROM helion/stack-alsek
ADD hooks /etc/helion/hooks</codeblock><p>The
        pre-running hook example above would require the addition of
          <codeph>newrelic-sysmond</codeph> to the Docker image. A Dockerfile enabling that might
        look like
        this:</p><codeblock>FROM helion/stack-alsek

RUN echo deb http://apt.newrelic.com/debian/ newrelic non-free &gt;&gt; /etc/apt/sources.list.d/newrelic.list
RUN wget -O- https://download.newrelic.com/548C16BF.gpg | apt-key add -
RUN apt-get update
RUN apt-get install newrelic-sysmond
# The nrsysmond scripts are run with sudo
RUN echo "HELION ALL= NOPASSWD: /etc/init.d/newrelic-sysmond" &gt;&gt; /etc/sudoers
RUN echo "HELION ALL= NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/nrsysmond-config" &gt;&gt; /etc/sudoers

ADD hooks /etc/helion/hooks </codeblock>
      </section><section id="creating-a-docker-registry"><title>Creating a Docker Registry </title><p>The steps
        above will work with smaller clusters or micro clouds where the creation of Docker images on
        each DEA can be done manually. On larger clusters, you should set up a <xref
          href="https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/registry/" scope="external" format="html">Docker
          registry</xref> as a central repository for the base image. This registry server can also
        be used for <xref href="../../user/deploy/languages/docker_apps.dita">deploying Docker
          apps</xref>. </p> Consult the Docker site documentation for guidelines on <xref
        href="https://docs.docker.com/registry/deploying/#making-dockers-official-registry-image-production-ready"
        format="html" scope="external">making Docker's official registry image production
        ready</xref>. <p>If you do not want to set up your own private Docker registry server, you
        can push your images to the <xref href="https://registry.hub.docker.com/" format="html"
          scope="external">Docker Hub Registry</xref> instead. Private repositories are
        available.</p></section>
    <section>To use the local registry server as the source for the base image set up at
        <i>registry.example.com:5000</i>: <ol id="ol_vrd_yzf_qs">
        <li> Push the newly built Docker image to the
            registry:<codeblock>sudo docker push registry.example.com:5000/exampleco/newimg</codeblock><note>The
              <i>helion/stack/alsek</i> and <i>helion/base images</i> (approximately 1.9GB) are
            pushed to the registry in addition to the new image. Make sure you have sufficient disk
            space available on the VM. </note></li>
        <li> On <b>each</b> DEA node, pull the new image from the
          registry:<codeblock>sudo docker pull registry.example.com:5000/exampleco/newimg</codeblock></li>
        <li> Configure Application Lifecycle Service to use the new image. This step only needs to
          be done once, as the configuration change is shared with all nodes.
          <codeblock>kato config set fence docker/images                                               
> '["registry.example.com:5000/exampleco/newimg","helion/stack-alsek","helion/stack/alsek"]'                                                    
WARNING: Assumed type struct                                            
- registry.example.com:5000/exampleco/newimg                         
- helion/stack-alsek                                                      
- helion/stack/alsek                          </codeblock></li>
      </ol> The <xref href="../best-practices/best_practices_index.dita#topic16169/upgrade-docker"
        type="section">Upgrade the Docker Image</xref> documentation explains how to modify the
      Docker base image without changing <i>kato config</i>. </section>
       <section id="docker-privileged-containers">
      <title>Privileged Containers</title>
      <p>ALS runs "unprivileged" Docker containers by default. The containers do not have access to
        any devices on the (virtual) host.</p>
      <p>This is a barrier to certain operations such as mounting disk partitions via NFS, so an
        option exists to change Docker container creation to "privileged":</p>
      <codeblock>kato config set dea_ng docker/privileged true </codeblock>
      <p>This <xref
          href="https://docs.docker.com/reference/run#runtime-privilege-and-lxc-configuration"
          type="section" scope="external" format="html">container privilege elevation</xref> would
        normally be used in conjunction with <i>sudo</i> container access in the quota.</p>
      <codeblock>helion quota configure --allow-sudo </codeblock>
      <note type="warning">Every application running under this configuration has the potential to
        become root on the host. These changes compromise the isolation between application
        containers and host and should only be made when <b>all</b> users of the system are
        completely trusted with admin-level privileges. </note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
