<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3030">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: ALS Router</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>The Application Lifecycle Service Router role manages HTTP and HTTPS traffic between web clients and application instances. In conjunction with the Cloud
Controller, it maps application URLs to the corresponding application
instances running in Linux containers on DEA nodes, distributing load
between multiple instances (containers) as required.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3030/settings">Settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3030/websockets">WebSockets</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3030/router-spdy">SPDY</xref>
</li>
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic3030/router">router.yml</xref></li>
  <li><xref type="section" href="#topic3030/ACL">Access Control List</xref></li>
  <li><xref type="section" href="https_and_ssl.dita">Router SSL/TLS</xref></li> 
</ul>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service's default router ('router2g') supports
<xref href="http://www.websocket.org/aboutwebsocket.html" scope="external" format="html" >WebSocket</xref> (including
"wss://" secure web sockets) and <xref href="http://www.chromium.org/spdy" scope="external" format="html" >SPDY</xref>.</p>
    <p>For Router SSL/TLS information, see the <xref href="https_and_ssl.dita">HTTPS and SSL
      Configuration</xref> documentation.</p>
<section id="settings"> <title>Settings</title>
 <p>The Router is configured using <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config" type="section"  >
      <i>kato config</i>
    </xref>. The following settings are configurable:</p>
<dl>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>client_inactivity_timeout</dt>
    <dd>time (in seconds) the router waits
      for idle clients (default 1200 seconds). To change this:
      <codeblock>kato config set router2g client_inactivity_timeout 2400</codeblock></dd>
  </dlentry>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>backend_inactivity_timeout</dt>
    <dd>time (in seconds) the router waits
      for applications to respond (default 1200 seconds). To change this:
      <codeblock>kato config set router2g client_inactivity_timeout 2400</codeblock></dd>
  </dlentry>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>prevent_x_spoofing (true|false)</dt>
    <dd>Enable HTTP "X-" header spoofing prevention (default 'true'). When enabled, the router
            discards all X- headers sent by the client (e.g. X-Forwarded-For, X-Forwarded-proto,
            X-Real-IP, etc.) and replaces them with values determined by the router itself. Set this
            option to 'false' only if the routers are behind a load balancer which terminates SSL
            connections; in this scenario, the router will trust the X-headers set by the load
            balancer. To enable:
              <codeblock>kato config set router2g prevent_x_spoofing true --json</codeblock><note>If
              you have configured separate network routes to the API endpoint and user applications
              [private network access to the API endpoint, load-balanced public access to
              applications] this option must be set to 'true', or user applications will not have
              access to X-headers set by the load balancer.</note></dd>
  </dlentry>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>session_affinity (true|false - disabled/unset by default)</dt>
    <dd>Enable sticky session support on the router. Overrides normal
      round-robin load balancing for clients with JSESSIONID, SESSIONID,
      or PHPSESSID cookies set (configurable in the router's
      <i>config/local.json</i> file), routing those clients to specific
      application instances. If the backend assigned on the first request
      goes down, a new one is automatically assigned. Clients can delete
      their sticky session assignment by removing the
      HELION_SESSION_AFFINITY cookie.</dd>
  </dlentry>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>x_frame_options</dt>
    <dd>Prevent clickjacking on requests with <xref
              href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/HTTP/X-Frame-Options" scope="external"
              format="html">X-Frame response header</xref> configuration. Disabled if empty
            (default). Valid values are: <ul>
              <li>DENY</li>
              <li>SAMEORIGIN</li>
              <li>ALLOW_FROM \&lt;uri&gt;</li>
            </ul> For example:
              <codeblock>kato config set router2g x_frame_options SAMEORIGIN</codeblock><note>End-user
              applications can also employ <xref href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Framekiller"
                scope="external" format="html">framekiller</xref> JavaScript snippets instead to
              help prevent frame-based clickjacking.</note></dd>
  </dlentry><dlentry>
    <dt>acl</dt><dd>Access Control List settings for the router. Undefined by default.</dd></dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>cluster_endpoint_aliases</dt>
          <dd>Add aliases for the API Endpoint. See the API Endpoint Alias documentation for an example.</dd>
        </dlentry><dlentry>
          <dt>appOnlyRouter</dt>
          <dd>Note that this is a file setting and not a <codeph>kato</codeph> command. This setting
            can be configured on router nodes in the
              <codeph>/s/code/stackato-router/config/local.json</codeph> file. Set
              <codeph>appOnlyRouter</codeph> to true and restart the router to enable. This
            configures the router to not serve the API Endpoint, only user-deployed applications. At
            least one router node in every cluster must expose the API Endpoint, but it does not
            need to be internet accessible if the developers pushing applications are within the
            same internal network where ALS is installed.</dd>
        </dlentry></dl><p>When configuration is complete, restart the router role to apply any
          changes to the running router(s).<codeblock>kato restart router</codeblock></p>
</section>
<section id="websockets"> <title>WebSockets</title>
<p>Applications using web sockets must use the VCAP_APP_PORT or PORT
<xref href="../../user/reference/environment.dita"><i>environment variables</i>
</xref>
to set the default listener port of the WebSocket server.</p>
</section>
<section id="router-spdy"> <title>SPDY</title>
<p>
<xref href="http://dev.chromium.org/spdy/" scope="external" format="html" >SPDY</xref> is a protocol developed by Google
for reducing web page load time. The router supports SPDY versions 2 and
3. Applications can use SPDY over any HTTPS connection, so long as the
connection consumers (the application server and browser) support it.</p>
</section>
  <section id="router">
      <title>router.yml</title>
      <p>The default settings for the router are loaded from a <b>router.yml</b> file in the
          <codeph>/s/code/stackato-router/config/</codeph> directory during first boot (only). You
        can use this file to configure the router, but the changes must be manually re-imported with
        the <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-op-import_from_yaml_file">kato-command-ref-op-import_from_yaml_file</xref>command.</p>
      <codeblock>kato op import_from_yaml_file router2g 
kato restart router </codeblock>
      <p>This approach is often easier than manipulating the settings individually. </p>
    </section>

  <section id="ACL"><title>Access Control List</title>
  <p>You can set the router to block specific IP addresses and ranges from connecting to ALS and the
        applications it hosts. </p>
      <p>
        <note type="tip">To minimalize snooping or DoS attempts, always set the
            <codeph>drop_conn</codeph> key to <i>true</i> . This will terminate connections from
          blocked IP addresses abruptly without an HTTP 403 error.
          <codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/drop_conn true</codeblock></note>
      </p>
      <p>To enable the access control list:
        <codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/enabled true</codeblock> The rules key provides a
        DENY list for single IP addresses and/or ranges to block. To specify a single IP address:
        <codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/rules '["192.168.1.90"]'</codeblock> To add another
        IP address to the existing list of blocked IPs:
        <codeblock>kato config push router2g acl/rules "192.168.5.10"</codeblock> To set a range of
        IP addresses:
        <codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/rules '[["192.168.3.100","192.168.3.200"]]'</codeblock>
        To set set individual addresses and ranges together: </p>
    <p>(See the <xref href="#topic3030/router">router.yml</xref> section above for setting this configuration
        using a YAML file instead.
        )<codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/rules '["192.168.1.90",["192.168.3.100","192.168.3.200"]]'</codeblock></p>
      <p> If the routers are behind a load balancer that sets the 'X-Forwarded-For' header, set the
          <codeph>use_x_forwarded_for </codeph>to <i>true</i> :
        <codeblock>kato config set router2g acl/use_x_forwarded_for true</codeblock> Use
          <codeph>kato config get router2g acl </codeph>to check your settings:
        <codeblock>kato config get router2g acl
enabled: true
drop_conn: true
use_x_forwarded_for: false
rules:
- 192.168.1.90
- - 192.168.3.100
- 192.168.3.200</codeblock>
        Restart the router role to apply the configuration changes:
        <codeblock>kato restart router</codeblock></p>
                
  </section>
</body>
</topic>
