<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_m43_2j3_bt">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Reconfiguring the Identity Service</title>
  <body><!--Needs Edit-->

    <section><title>Updating the Keystone Identity Service</title>HP Helion OpenStack&#174; allows
      you to perform updates on the following parts of the Identity service configuration:: </section>
      
      <section>
      
      <ul>
      <li> Any content in main keystone configuration file:<b> /etc/keystone/keystone.conf</b>. This
          allows to manipulate Keystone configuration parameters. Please refer to the <xref
            href="#topic_m43_2j3_bt/updating" format="dita">Updating the main Identity Service
            configuration file</xref> section next. </li><li>Updating certain configuration options and enabling features, such as:
      
      
      <ul><li>Verbosity of logs being written to keystone log files.
      </li><li>Process counts for Apache2 WSGI module, separately for admin and public Keystone interfaces
      </li><li>Enabling/disabling auditing.
      </li><li>Enabling/disabling Fernet Tokens.</li></ul>
      
      Please refer to Enabling Keystone Features section below.</li>
      <li>Creating and updating domain-specific configuration files:
            <b>/etc/keystone/domains/keystone.&lt;domain_name>.conf</b>. This allows to integrate
          Keystone with one or more external authentication sources, such as LDAP server. Please
          refer to Integrating with an external LDAP server section below. </li>
      </ul>
      </section>
    <section id="updating"><title>Updating the main Identity Service configuration file</title>
      
     <ol><li>The main Keystone Identity Service configuration file (<b>/etc/keystone/keystone.conf</b>),
          located on each control plane server is generated from the following template file located
          on a deployer: <b>/home/stack/helion/my_cloud/config/keystone/keystone.conf.j2</b>
          <p>Modify this template file as appropriate. Please refer to <xref
              href="http://docs.openstack.org/kilo/config-reference/content/keystone-configuration-file.html"
              format="html" scope="external">Keystone Kilo documentation</xref> for full
            descriptions of all settings: This is a Jinja2 template, which expects certain template
            variables to be set. Do not change values inside double curly braces: {{ }}. </p>
          <note>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 has the token expiration setting as below, which is
            different from the upstream value "3600":
            <codeblock>[token] 
expiration = 14400</codeblock></note>
        </li>
    <li>Once the template is modified, commit the change to the local git repository, and rerun the
          configuration processor / deployment area preparation playbooks (as suggested at <xref
            href="../installation/using_git.dita">Using Git for Configuration Management</xref>):
          <codeblock>$ cd ~/helion
$ git checkout site
$ git add my_cloud/config/keystone/keystone.conf.j2
$ git commit -m "Adjusting some parameters in keystone.conf"
$ cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
       <li>Run reconfiguration playbook in deployment area:
          <codeblock>$ cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts keystone-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
        </li></ol>
    </section>
    
    <section id="enable_features"><title>Enabling Identity Service features</title> To enable or
      disable Keystone features like Fernet Tokens, do the following: <ol>
        <li>Adjust respective parameters in
            <b>/home/stack/helion/my_cloud/config/keystone/keystone_deploy_config.ym</b>l. </li>
        <li>Commit the change into local git repository, and rerun configuration processor /
          deployment area preparation playbooks (as suggested at <xref href="../installation/using_git.dita"
            >Using Git for Configuration Management</xref>):
          <codeblock>$ cd ~/helion
$ git checkout site
$ git add my_cloud/config/keystone/keystone_deploy_config.yml
$ git commit -m "Adjusting some WSGI or logging parameters for keystone"
$ cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>

    <li>Run reconfiguration playbook in deployment area:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
$ ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts keystone-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Fernet Token</title>
      
      
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 supports UUID tokens by default. Fernet Tokens are available as an
        experimental feature. You can switch to using Fernet tokens instead of UUID tokens by
        following the above steps. The benefit of using Fernet tokens is that tokens are not
        persisted in a database, which is helpful if you want to deploy Keystone Identity service as
        one master and multiple slaves: only roles, projects, etc. will need to be replicated from
        master to slaves, not the token table. The tradeoff is the cost of token validation.
        According to our performance testing, although Fernet tokens perform slightly better than
        UUID on token creation, the degradation is about 400% on token validation when compared to
        UUID tokens. The performance degradation is caused mainly by database operations; there are
        39 queries per fernet token validation, while UUID causes only 2 queries per token
        validation.</p>
      
      <note>Tempest doesn't work with Fernet Tokens in HP Helion OpenStack 2.0. If Fernet tokens are
        enabled, please don't run token tests in Tempest.</note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Keystone Identity Auditing</title>Identity Service auditing can be enabled as
      described in "Enabling Keystone Features". Keystone creates an exchange with the name
      "keystone" of type "topic" and sends a message to that exchange with the binding_key
      "notification.info". Keystone also creates a queue with the name "notification.info" and
      attaches to this exchange. You should not connect to this queue as this queue is used by
      ceilometer. If some other clients connects to this queue, then ceilometer will no longer have
      exclusive access to the messages in this queue. So a typical client which likes to consume the
      audit message should create an exclusive queue for itself, attach the queue to the exchange
      "keystone" and look for the messages with the binding key "notification.info". Given below is
      the sample code for a typical client consuming audit messages.<p>Keystone auditing was
        implemented for Ceilometer. Ceilometer is focused on metrics that support
        showback/chargeback/billing. There's no product plan for Keystone metrics to be part of the
        Ceilometer collection.
      </p><codeblock>###Sample Audit Client code

 #!/usr/bin/env python
import pika
 
# Call back message for processing audit messges
def callback(ch, method, properties, body):
    print " [x] %r:%r" % (method.routing_key, body,)
 
# Sample code to connect and consume audit messages
 
# Username/Password for rabbit
credentials = pika.PlainCredentials("guest", "guest")
connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters(
        host='192.168.245.3', port=5672, credentials=credentials))
channel = connection.channel()
 
# Keystone sends the message to the exchange=keystone
channel.exchange_declare(exchange='keystone',
                         type='topic')
 
# Create a random queue and connect to the exchange
# Make sure this queue is exclusive to auditclient and non persistent.
# If you make the queue to be persistent, you have to make sure that queue doesn't get saturated with 
# too many messages
result = channel.queue_declare(exclusive=True)
queue_name = result.method.queue
 
# Binding keys used by keystone
binding_keys = ["notifications.info"]
for binding_key in binding_keys:
    channel.queue_bind(exchange='keystone',
                       queue=queue_name,
                       routing_key=binding_key)
 
print ' [*] Waiting for audit messages. To exit press CTRL+C'
 
channel.basic_consume(callback,
                      queue=queue_name,
                      no_ack=True)
channel.start_consuming()</codeblock></section>
  </body>
</topic>
