<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configure_logging">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Configuring the Centralized Logging
    Service</title>
  <body>
    <!--Needs Edit-->
    <section id="config">
      <p>In HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 you will have the option to configure the Centralized Logging
        service for your needs. The information contained here will assist in this process.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="#configure_logging/config_files">Main Configuration Files</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#configure_logging/general_config">General Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#configure_logging/kibana_config">Kibana Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#configure_logging/elasticsearch_config">Elasticsearch
          Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#configure_logging/service_config">Service Logging Level
            Configuration</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="config_files"><title>Main Configuration Files</title>
      <p>Centralized Logging can be configured via the configuration files in the
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/</codeph> directory on the deployer. These files
        and their use are:</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_wtv_rc5_st">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>File</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>main.yml</entry>
              <entry>Main configuration file for all centralized logging components</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch.yml.j2</entry>
              <entry>Main configuration file for elasticsearch</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch-default.j2</entry>
              <entry>Default overrides for the elasticsearch init script</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana.yml.j2</entry>
              <entry>Main configuration file for Kibana</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana-apache2.conf.j2</entry>
              <entry>Apache configuration for Kibana</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>logstash.conf.j2</entry>
              <entry>Logstash inputs/outputs configuration</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>logstash-default.j2</entry>
              <entry>Default overrides for the logstash init script</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>beaver.conf.j2</entry>
              <entry>Main configuration file for Beaver</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>vars</entry>
              <entry>Path to logrotate configuration files</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="general_config"><title>General Configuration</title>
      <p>The Centralized Logging service needs to have the proper amount of resources available to
        it in order to perform adequately for different scale environments. The base logging levels
        will be tuned during installation according to the amount of RAM allocated to your control
        plane nodes to ensure optimum performance.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_grx_2f5_st">
        <tgroup cols="7">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5"/>
          <colspec colname="c6" colnum="6"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol7" colnum="7" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Component</entry>
              <entry>Ansible Variable</entry>
              <entry>Demo (&lt;32GB)</entry>
              <entry>Small (&lt;64GB)</entry>
              <entry>Medium (&lt;128GB)</entry>
              <entry>Large (>= 128GB)</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Elasticsearch</entry>
              <entry>elasticsearch_heap_size</entry>
              <entry>256 MB</entry>
              <entry>8 GB</entry>
              <entry>16 GB</entry>
              <entry>32 GB</entry>
              <entry>Amount of heap allocated to Elasticsearch</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Logstash</entry>
              <entry>logstash_heap_size</entry>
              <entry>256 MB</entry>
              <entry>2 GB</entry>
              <entry>4 GB</entry>
              <entry>8 GB</entry>
              <entry>Amount of heap allocated to Logstash</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Logstash</entry>
              <entry>logstash_num_workers</entry>
              <entry>10</entry>
              <entry>10</entry>
              <entry>20</entry>
              <entry>30</entry>
              <entry>Number of logstash threads to spawn</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>These values can be viewed and changed in the
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/main.yml</codeph> file if you wish but you will
        need to run a reconfigure of the Centralized Logging service if changes are made.</p>
      <note type="warning">The total process memory consumption for Elasticsearch will be the above
        allocated heap value plus any Java Virtual Machine (JVM) overhead.</note>
    </section>
    <section id="kibana_config">
      <title>Kibana Configuration</title>
      <p>The access information for Kibana is defined in
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/main.yml</codeph> and implemented in the Kibana
        configuration file
        <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/kibana-apache2.conf.j2</codeph>.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_spl_rg5_st">
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Ansible Variable</entry>
              <entry>Default Value</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana_user</entry>
              <entry>kibana</entry>
              <entry>Username that will be required for logging into the Kibana UI</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana_pass</entry>
              <entry>random password is generated</entry>
              <entry>Password generated during installation that is used to login to the Kibana
                UI</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="elasticsearch_config">
      <title>Elasticsearch Configuration</title>
      <p>Elasticsearch has a number of tunable options exposed in its configuration that we have
        taken advantage of to tune Elasticsearch in HP Helion OpenStack in such a way that we favor
        indexing speed over search speed. We have also tuned it for optimal performance in low RAM
        environments. The options that we've modified are listed below along with an explanation as
        to why they were modified.</p>
      <p>These configurations are defined in
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/main.yml</codeph> and are implemented in the
        Elasticsearch configuration file
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/elasticsearch.yml.j2</codeph>.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qsd_3h5_st">
        <tgroup cols="5">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Ansible Variable</entry>
              <entry>Configuration Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Default HP Helion OpenStack Value</entry>
              <entry>Elasticsearch Default Value</entry>
              <entry>Comments</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_cluster_name</entry>
              <entry>cluster name</entry>
              <entry>elasticsearch</entry>
              <entry>elasticsearch</entry>
              <entry>Name of the Elasticsearch cluster. This variable cannot be changed after the
                initial deployment. Doing so will reset all Elasticsearch indices.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_fielddata_cache_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.fielddata.cache.size</entry>
              <entry>15%</entry>
              <entry>unbounded</entry>
              <entry>By default, this setting is <i>unbounded</i>—Elasticsearch will never evict
                data from fielddata, which is less than ideal when trying to conserve on memory
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_breaker_fielddata_limit</entry>
              <entry>indices.breaker.fielddata.limit</entry>
              <entry>25%</entry>
              <entry>60%</entry>
              <entry>The field data circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to estimate the amount of
                memory a field will require to be loaded into memory. This value must be greater
                than <i><b>cache.size</b></i> to evict data properly.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_ttl_bulk_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.ttl.bulk_size</entry>
              <entry>100000</entry>
              <entry>10000</entry>
              <entry>The number of expired docs to delete at once.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_cache_filter_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.cache.filter.expire</entry>
              <entry>6h</entry>
              <entry>-1</entry>
              <entry>By default, this setting is -1 (i.e. never expires).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>50%</entry>
              <entry>10%</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_min_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.min_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>200 MB</entry>
              <entry>48 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_min_shard_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.min_shard_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>12 MB</entry>
              <entry>4 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_store_throttle_type</entry>
              <entry>indices.store.throttle.type</entry>
              <entry>merge</entry>
              <entry>merge</entry>
              <entry>Configures store module throttle for merges.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_store_throttle_max_bytes_per_sec</entry>
              <entry>indices.store.throttle.max_bytes_per_sec</entry>
              <entry>80 MB</entry>
              <entry>20 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_refresh_interval</entry>
              <entry>index.refresh_interval</entry>
              <entry>30s</entry>
              <entry>1s</entry>
              <entry>Increasing refresh interval reduces overhead.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_merge_scheduler_max_thread_count</entry>
              <entry>index.merge.scheduler.max_thread_count</entry>
              <entry>1</entry>
              <entry>cores/2</entry>
              <entry>Elasticsearch recommends 1 if using spinning disks</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_translog_flush_threashhold_ops</entry>
              <entry>index.translog.flush_threshhold_ops</entry>
              <entry>150000</entry>
              <entry>unlimited</entry>
              <entry>Each shard has a transaction log or write ahead log associated with it. This
                setting controls when commits occur.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_translog_flush_threashhold_size</entry>
              <entry>index.translog.flush_threshhold_size</entry>
              <entry>1 GB</entry>
              <entry>512 MB</entry>
              <entry>Increasing this setting decreases fsync.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="service_config"><title>Service Logging Level Configuration</title>
      <p>To configure the logging level for a specific service follow these steps:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="loglevel_config">
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
            <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Service</entry>
                <entry>Sub-component</entry>
                <entry>Expected Default Logging Level</entry>
                <entry>Steps to Change Log Level</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry morerows="5">Ceilometer</entry>
                <entry>ceilometer-api</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>You can change the <codeph>ceilometer_loglevel</codeph> in the file below
                    for all components during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/_CEI-CMN/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
                  <p>You can also change the log level for <codeph>ceilometer-api</codeph> only by
                    changing the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/CEI-API/templates/api-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>For post-deployment log level changes, please commit your changes to git and
                    re-run the following from the lifecycle-manager node:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ceilometer-collector</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>You can change the <codeph>ceilometer_loglevel</codeph> in the file below
                    for all components during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/_CEI-CMN/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
                  <p>You can also change the log level for <codeph>ceilometer-collector</codeph>
                    only by changing the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/CEI-COL/templates/collector-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>For post-deployment log level changes, please commit your changes to git and
                    re-run the following from the lifecycle-manager node:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
                      ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ceilometer-alarm-evaluator-json</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>This alarm functionality has been disabled.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ceilometer-agent-notification</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>You can change the <codeph>ceilometer_loglevel</codeph> in the file below
                    for all components during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/_CEI-CMN/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
                  <p>You can also change the log level for
                      <codeph>ceilometer-agent-notification</codeph> only by changing the file
                    below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/CEI-NAG/templates/agent-notification-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>For post-deployment log level changes, please commit your changes to git and
                    re-run the following from the lifecycle-manager node:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
                      ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ceilometer-agent-central</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>You can change the <codeph>ceilometer_loglevel</codeph> in the file below
                    for all components during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/_CEI-CMN/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
                  <p>You can also change the log level for <codeph>ceilometer-agent-central</codeph>
                    only by changing the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/CEI-CAG/templates/agent-central-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>For post-deployment log level changes, please commit your changes to git and
                    re-run the following from the lifecycle-manager node:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
                      ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>ceilometer-expirer</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>You can change the <codeph>ceilometer_loglevel</codeph> in the file below for
                    all components during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/_CEI-CMN/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
                  <p>You can also change the log level for <codeph>ceilometer-expirer</codeph> only
                    by changing the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/CEI-EXP/templates/expirer-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>For post-deployment log level changes, please commit your changes to git and
                    re-run the following from the lifecycle-manager node:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
                      ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml ceilometer-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Ceph</entry>
                <entry>ceph-mon <p>ceph-osd</p></entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>You can change the Ceph logging levels using the Ansible playbook, specifically
                    the switches, below for all components during deployment or after
                    deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml -e "ceph_mon_log_level=DEBUG, ceph_osd_log_level=DEBUG"</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Cinder</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>To set the local logging level for Cinder services, run the following
                  command: <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml -e cinder_loglevel=DEBUG</codeblock>
                  <p>To set the centralized logging level for Cinder services, run the following
                    command:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml -e cinder_logstash_loglevel=DEBUG</codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>EON</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry>See <xref href="../esx/logging.dita">EON Logging</xref> for more
                  details.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry morerows="2">Freezer</entry>
                <entry>freezer-agent</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>Currently the freezer-agent does not support debug logs. INFO level is the
                  default one used for this component.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>freezer-api</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>Currently the freezer-api does not support debug logs. INFO level is the
                  default one used for this component.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>freezer-scheduler</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>Currently the freezer-scheduler does not support debug logs. INFO level is
                  the default one used for this component.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Glance</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Glance exposes the logging configuration templates on the lifecycle-manager in
                    the following file:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/glance/ glance-[api,registry]-logging.conf</codeblock>.
                    <p>After the needed changes are done (for example logging level changes to local
                    or centralized logging) the <codeph>glance-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook
                    must be run targeting relevant nodes to deploy the configuration change.</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts glance-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Heat</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>The Heat logging configuration files in the following locations:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/heat/api-cfn-logging.conf.j2
~/helion/my_cloud/config/heat/api-cloudwatch-logging.conf.j2 
~/helion/my_cloud/config/heat/api-logging.conf.j2
~/helion/my_cloud/config/heat/engine-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>Users can edit these files and set the desired log level for both local as well
                    as centralized logging. After making the changes run heat-reconfigure playbook
                    from the deployer to apply the changes, as shown below:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts heat-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Keystone</entry>
                <entry>key-api</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>To configure logging levels, see <xref
                    href="../identity/identity_reconfigure.dita">Identity Service
                  Reconfigure</xref></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Monasca</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>WARN</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>All of the Monasca logging is defaulted to WARN. To change the level for all of
                    our services you can run:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-reconfigure.yml -e "monasca_log_level=DEBUG"
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-agent-reconfigure.yml -e "monasca_log_level=DEBUG"</codeblock>
                  <p>If you want to change the logging level per service, each of the following
                    files have the variable that you can set to the desired level:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/monasca-persister/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/zookeeper/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/storm/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/monasca-notification/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/monasca-api/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/kafka/defaults/main.yml
~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/monasca-agent/defaults/main.yml (This one you will need to add the variable)</codeblock>
                  <p>You will then need to run:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-reconfigure.yml -e "monasca_log_level=DEBUG"
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-agent-reconfigure.yml -e "monasca_log_level=DEBUG"</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry morerows="1">Nova</entry>
                <entry>nova-api</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Nova service log levels are configurable in the following file:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/nova/*-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>If you make edits to this file, you will need to run the
                      <codeph>nova-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml nova-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>nova-compute</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>Nova service log levels are configurable in the following file:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/nova/*-logging.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>If you make edits to this file, you will need to run the
                      <codeph>nova-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml nova-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Operations Console</entry>
                <entry>ops-web <p>ops-mon</p></entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>You can change the Operations Console logging levels using the playbook below
                    during deployment or after deployment.</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml -e "ops_console_loglevel=DEBUG"</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Sherpa</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The logging level is set in the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeblock>
                  <p>To change the logging level, just change from INFO to DEBUG in the following
                    line in sherpa.conf:</p>
                  <codeblock>'sherpa': {'level': 'INFO', 'handlers': ['file', 'json']}</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Swift</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry><p>The Swift service log levels are configurable in the file below:</p>
                  <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/swift/account-server.conf.j2</codeblock>
                  <p>If you make edits to this file, you will need to run the
                      <codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook to commit them to the
                    environment:</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml swift-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>VSA</entry>
                <entry>vsa-installer</entry>
                <entry>INFO</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The VSA logging levels are configurable for the <codeph>vsa-installer</codeph> module.
                    Use the following variables (default is INFO, case-sensitive):</p>
                  <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml -e "vsa_installer_log_level=DEBUG"</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
