<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="hdp_servicenet">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Creating the HPE Helion Development Platform
    Service Net</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="about">
      <p>Many of the HPE Helion Developer Platform services require the creation of a VM service
        network in order to access the cloud control plane. This service network is a
        VLAN-encapsulated provider network which is fully routable to the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>
        MGMT network.</p>
      <p>You should complete these steps prior to doing your HPE Helion Development Platform
        installation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="prereqs"><title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>These steps assume you have already allocated a VLAN for the Service Net prior to beginning
        these steps.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="inputmodel"><title>Specifying Your Service Net VLAN in the Input Model</title>
      <p>You will need to specify your Service Net in the input model, either during the <xref
          href="../installation/install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/configuration">Configure
          Your Environment</xref> portion of the installation or you can do it post-installation
        using the steps below.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Configure your <codeph>my_cloud </codeph>definition to include the service network. This
          is used to provide routing from management (and potentially other networks) back to the
          newly created service net. <ol>
            <li>Ensure that the service network is routable from the management network and that the
              service network is defined in
                <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/network_groups.yml</codeph>. <p>Here is an
                example showing the two new entries you need to make in this file:</p>
              <codeblock>#
# Management
#
# This is the network group that will be used to for
# management traffic within the cloud.
#
# The interface used by this group will be presented
# to Neutron as physnet1, and used by provider VLANS
#
# In this example this group is also used for ISCSI
# traffic between VMs and the VSA block storage
#
- name: MANAGEMENT
  hostname-suffix: mgmt
  hostname: true

  component-endpoints:
      - default

  routes:
      - default
      <b>- SERVICE</b>

  load-balancers:
      - provider: ip-cluster
        name: lb
        components:
            - default
        roles:
            - internal
            - admin

   tags:
      - neutron.networks.vlan:
        provider-physical-network: physnet1

 <b>- name: SERVICE</b></codeblock></li>
            <li>Ensure that there is a valid definition for the service network in the
                <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/networks.yml</codeph> file. <p>The
                  <codeph>cidr</codeph> and <codeph>gateway</codeph> given must match the values
                provided when the network was created.</p>
              <p>Here is an example showing the format:</p>
              <codeblock>- name: SERVICE-NET
  vlanid: 306 
  tagged-vlan: true 
  cidr: 10.1.6.0/24 
  gateway-ip: 10.1.6.1 
  network-group: SERVICE</codeblock></li>
            <li>Ensure that this network is a member of the server-group listed in the
                <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/server_groups.yml</codeph> file. <p>Here
                is an example showing this:</p>
              <codeblock>server-groups: 
- name: CLOUD 
  server-groups: 
     - AZ1
     - AZ2
     - AZ3
  networks: 
     - EXTERNAL-NET
     - GUEST-NET 
     - MANAGEMENT-NET
     - PXE-NET 
     <b>- SERVICE-NET</b></codeblock></li>
            <li>If you made these changes prior to your first run of the configuration processor,
              then continue with the installation steps as documented. If you are making these
              changes after your initial run then continue on with the next steps.</li>
            <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../installation/using_git.dita">local
                git repo</xref>, as follows:
              <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the configuration processor with this command:
              <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
            <li>Use the playbook below to create a deployment directory:
              <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
            <li>Run the <codeph>site.yml</codeph> playbook below: <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml</codeblock>
              <p>If you have used an encryption password when running the configuration processor
                use the command below and enter the encryption password when prompted:
                <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml --ask-vault-pass</codeblock>
              </p></li>
          </ol></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="svcnet"><title>Creating the Neutron Service Net</title>
      <ol>
        <li>SSH to the lifecycle manager using admin credentials.</li>
        <li>Source the admin credentials: <codeblock>source ~/service.osrc</codeblock></li>
        <li>Configure a Neutron network that will map to an external network for the service net. <ul>
            <li>For simple configurations, a lifecycle manager playbook has been provided for this
              purpose.</li>
            <li>For non-trivial network configurations, any additional routes should be added to the
              subnet definition using the <codeph>--host-route</codeph> option of the neutron
              subnet-create command. The <codeph>--host-route</codeph> option can be specified
              multiple times if necessary.
              <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts neutron-svc-net-configure.yml \
    -e PROV_NET_TYPE=&#60;provider_network_type&#62; \
    -e PROV_PHYS_NET=&#60;physical_network_name&#62; \
    -e PROV_NET_VLAN_ID=&#60;vlan_id&#62; \
    -e SVC_NET_CIDR=&#60;provider_network_cidr&#62; \
    -e SVC_NET_DEST=&#60;svc_net_destination&#62; \
    -e SVC_NET_GATEWAY="gateway_used_by_the_network" \
    -e SVC_ALLOCATION_START="10.241.0.70" \
    -e SVC_ALLOCATION_END="10.241.0.125"</codeblock>Example:
              Given a management network with the following attributes: <sl>
                <sli>MGMT Net = 192.168.245.1/24</sli>
                <sli>SVC Net = 10.55.66.0/24</sli>
                <sli>SVC gateway to MGMT = 10.55.66.3</sli>
                <sli>SVC Net VLAN = 100</sli>
              </sl> the playbook command for creating the service network would be:
              <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts neutron-svc-net-configure.yml -e PROV_NET_TYPE=vlan -e PROV_PHYS_NET=physnet1 -e PROV_NET_VLAN_ID=100 -e SVC_NET_CIDR=10.55.66.0/24 -e SVC_NET_DEST=192.168.245.1/32 -e SVC_NET_GATEWAY=10.55.66.3</codeblock></li>
          </ul><note>To configure a service network for flat encapsulation, modify the service
            network creation statement: <codeph>-e PROV_NET_TYPE flat</codeph> The subnet creation
            statement does not change.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

  </body>
</topic>
