<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2335">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta):  Configuring VXLAN Endpoint IP Addresses</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion Openstack Carrier Grade (Beta): Configuring VXLAN Endpoint IP Addresses</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/VXLAN/carrier-grade-admin-wr-config-planning-vxlans-setting-endpoints.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/config/plan/vxlans/endpoints/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>You can configure a data interface on a compute node with an endpoint address using CLI commands.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>For VXLAN connectivity between VMs, the compute nodes that host the VMs must be configured with endpoint IP addresses.</p>
<p>To configure VXLAN enpoints:</p>
<ol>
<li>Lock the compute node first.<p>system host-lock hostname</p><p>where <codeph>hostname</codeph>
          is the name of the compute node host</p></li>
<li>Set the interface to support an IPv4 or IPv6 address, or
          both.<codeblock><codeph>system host-if-modify node ifname --ipv4-mode=ipv4mode --ipv6-mode=ipv6mode
</codeph></codeblock><p>where</p><ul>
          <li>
            <codeph>node</codeph> is the name or UUID of the compute node</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>ifname</codeph> is the name of the interface</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>ipv4mode</codeph> is either disabled or static</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>ipv6mode</codeph> is either disabled or static</li>
        </ul></li>
<li>Add an IPv4 or IPv6 address to the interface.<p>system host-addr-add node ifname ip_address
          prefix</p><p>where</p><ul>
          <li>
            <codeph>node</codeph> is the name or UUID of the compute node</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>ifname</codeph> is the name of the interface</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>ip_address</codeph> is an IPv4 or IPv6 address</li>
          <li>
            <codeph>prefix</codeph> is the netmask length for the address</li>
        </ul><p>To delete an address, use the following
          commands:</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-addr-list
</codeph></codeblock><p>This
          displays the UUIDs of existing
          addresses.</p><codeblock><codeph>system host-addr-delete uuid
</codeph></codeblock><p>where
          uuid is the UUID of the address.</p></li>
<li>Unlock the compute node and wait for it to become available.<p>system host-unlock
          hostname</p><p>where <codeph>hostname</codeph> is the name of the compute node
        host</p></li>
</ol>
<p>To delete routes, use the following command.</p>
<p>system host-route-delete uuid ifname network prefix gateway metric</p>
<codeblock>  <codeph>where 

* `uuid` is the UUID of the route to be deleted.
* `node` is the name or UUID of the compute node
* `ifname` is the name of the interface
* `network` is an IPv4 or IPv6 network address 
* `prefix` is the netmask length for the network address
* `gateway` is the default gateway
* `metric` is the cost of the route (the number of hops)
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To list existing routes, including their UUIDs, use the following command.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>system host-route-list
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2335"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
