<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic15959">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: API and SDK Reference</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Amanda F"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>This document describes <xref href="#topic15959/api" format="dita">the APIs</xref> and
          <xref href="#topic15959/sdk" format="dita">the Software Development Kit (SDK)</xref>
        available for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
    </section>
<section id="api"><title>APIs</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is built on OpenStack technologies.</p>
      <p>The OpenStack REST API Documentation is open-source; both the published formats (PDF and
        HTML pages) as well as the docbook/wadl source documents. </p>
      <p>The open-source OpenStack REST API Documentation is currently NOT versioned. There is only
        a master/current version of the OpenStack REST API Documentation containing updates from
        'all' versions of OpenStack.</p>
    <p><b>Non-KVM Region API</b>. For the API refernece for the non-KVM region, see the <xref
        href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref.html" format="html" scope="external">OpenStack
        API Complete Reference</xref>.</p>
    <p>For the specific OpenStack services supported by HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade, see <xref
        href="../Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita#topic4220">Services Overview</xref>.</p> 
      
    <p><b>KVM Region API</b>. For the API refernece for the KVM region, see <xref
          href="../../PDF/HP-Helion-OpenStack-Carrier-Grade-REST-API.pdf" format="pdf">HP Helion
          OpenStack Carrier Grade: REST API Guide</xref>. This document contains HP Helion OpenStack
        Carrier Grade extensions to the OpenStack Compute API for use with the servers in the KVM
        region.</p>
    <p><b><i>For the KVM and ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/> deployments:</i></b></p>
    <p><b>ESX API</b>. You can use aspects of the VMware vSphere<tm tmtype="reg"/> API, as
        applicable for your license agreement. Refer to the vSphere documentation for more
        information.</p>
    
    <p><b>DCN API</b>. You can use aspects of the HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN) API, 
      as applicable for your license agreement. Refer to the DCN documentation for more information.</p>
      </section>
    <section id="sdk"><title>Software Development Kit</title>
    <p><b>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software Development Kit (SDK)</b></p>
    <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade SDK can be used by guest applications to interact
        programmatically with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. </p>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software Development Kit (SDK) provides drivers,
        daemons, API libraries, and configuration files that you can include in a guest image to
        leverage the extended capabilities of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. Available
        components include:</p>
      <ul id="ul_zdh_d51_ds">
        <li>
          <p>Accelerated Kernel Network Drivers—Drivers for improved performance of kernel-based
            networking VNFs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Accelerated DPDK Network Drivers—Drivers for high-performance DPDK-based networking
            VNFs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>VM Resource Scaling—A service for scaling the capacity of a guest server on demand</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Guest Heartbeat—A service for health monitoring of guest applications</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Server Group Messaging—A service for low-bandwidth peer messaging between servers in
            the same group</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>SNMP MIB—Resources for system alarms management</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Sample Heat Orchestration Templates—Resources for deploying and managing stacks of
            applications or application services</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>OpenStack REST API Documentation—Documentation for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
            REST APIs and HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions to OpenStack REST APIs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Custom Branding—Resources for customizing the Horizon GUI</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>See the <xref
          href="http://gaf2871b9d2d13cf45c1306b35bf01764.cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/HP-Helion-OpenStack-Carrier-Grade-SDK-2.0.pdf"
          format="pdf">Software Development Kit documentation</xref>.</p>
</section>


  </body>
</topic>
