<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2060">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Pinning a Guest NUMA Node to a Host NUMA Node</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.numa.pin.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/flavors/extra/numa/pin/--></p>
<p>You can use flavor extra specs or image properties to pin a guest NUMA node to a host NUMA node.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>By default, when instances are launched or migrated, the virtual NUMA nodes defined for the VMs are mapped to available host NUMA nodes. You can optionally designate a specific host NUMA node for a virtual NUMA node, using either a flavor extra specification (which takes the general form hw:specification), or an image property (which takes the general form hw_specification). This enables you to co-locate VM processes with AVS vSwitch processes for high-performance networking.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> Multiple NUMA nodes for VMs are not currently supported.</p>
<p>For a VM with only one virtual NUMA node, you can use an extra specification to specify the host NUMA node.</p>
<p>To add this extra spec to a flavor using the Horizon dashboard, use the VCPU Model selection in the <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.dita" >Create Flavor Extra Spec drop-down menu</xref>. Horizon provides fields to associate a Guest NUMA Node with a Host NUMA
Node.</p>
<p>You can also pin NUMA nodes using the CLI. The following extra specification assigns a specific host NUMA node
to a virtual NUMA node:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>    hw:numa_node.vnode_id=pnode_id

where
* `vnode_id` is the number used to identify the virtual NUMA node (0 for the first node, 1 for the second, and so on).
* `pnode_id` is the number used to identify the host NUMA node (0 for the first node, 1 for the second, and so on).

**Example:** 

For the flavor `numa.pinned.asym`, use the following command to assign virtual NUMA node 0 to host NUMA node 1:

    nova-flavor-key numa.pinned.asym set hw:numa_node.0=1
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</body>
</topic>
