<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1779">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Specifying Local Storage for a VM</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.storage.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/flavors/extra/vcpu/storage/--></p>
<p>You can specify the use of local storage or Cinder-based storage by using a flavor with the required extra
specification.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Before you can use local storage for a VM, you must configure at least one compute node to provide local storage.</p>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> Local storage is ephemeral.</p>
<ul>
<li>Unlike Cinder-based storage, local storage does not persist when the instance is terminated or if the
compute node fails.</li>
<li>Live migration for local storage is not currently supported. Only cold migration is supported for an
instance using local storage, where a new initial volume is created for the instance.</li>
</ul>
<p>To add this extra spec to a flavor using the Horizon dashboard, use the VCPU Model selection in the <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.dita" >Create Flavor Extra Spec drop-down menu</xref>.</p>
<p>You can also specify the extra spec from the CLI by setting the following parameter for a flavor:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>aggregate_instance_extra_specs:local_storage=loc_storage
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>where loc_storage is one of the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>true - Specifies ephemeral local storage for use by the VM.</li>
<li>false - Specifies persistent Cinder-based storage for use by the VM.</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>Example:</b>
</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name \
set aggregate_instance_extra_specs=integer_value
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>If this extra specification is not defined for a flavor, then VMs launched using the flavor are instantiated without
regard for the storage type.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1779/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
