<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4953">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Configuring Flavor Extra Specifications</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/flavors/extra/--></p>
<p>Compute flavors are machine configurations that describe the amount of memory, number of CPUs, and storage capacity of instances.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>You can edit an existing flavor to include additional attributes using extra specifications.</p>
<p>Extra specifications are key-value pairs you can add to an existing flavor to be included when the flavor is used with a new virtual machine.</p>
<p>The <b>Extra Specs</b> tab lists extra specifications that have been added for the flavor. To modify an existing entry, use the <b>Edit</b> button. To remove a single entry, open the drop-down menu associated with the extra spec, and select <b>Delete extra spec</b> from the menu. You can also remove all extra specs at once using the <b>Delete extra specs</b> button.</p>
<p>To add a new extra specification:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>

<ul>
<li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change, either: the hLinux region or the Wind River Linux region.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Flavors</b> link.</p>

<p>The flavors in the domain are listed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the name of the flavor you want to modify.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the <b>Extra Specs</b> tab, click <b>Create</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use the Extra Spec drop-down list to add specifications. The following options are available:</p>

<ol>
<li>Custom Extra Spec. Available for internal use only.</li>
<li>VCPU Model. The CPU model to use with the virtual machine. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.dita" >Specifying the VCPU Model for a VM</xref>.</li>
<li>CPU Policy. The policy for assigning dedicated physical or logical CPU resources to the VM. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.cpu.dita" >Specifying Dedicated CPUs for a VM</xref>.</li>
<li>NUMA node. The NUMA node to use when launching a virtual machine. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.numa.dita" >Configuring the NUMA Node Allocations for a VM</xref>.</li>
<li>Shared VCPU ID. The ID of a virtual CPU scheduled to run on a shared physical CPU in the compute host. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.pin.dita" >Pinning a vCPU to a Shared Physical CPU</xref>.
<b>Note:</b> To use this extra specification, you must also set the CPU Policy extra specification for the flavor to Dedicated.</li>
<li>Memory Page Size. Sets the page size for VM memory. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.page.dita" >Specifying a Page Size for a VM</xref>.</li>
<li>Guest Heartbeat. Enables the Heartbeat API for use by guests on the VM. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.api.dita" >Enabling the Heartbeat API for a VM</xref>.</li>
<li>VCPU Scheduler Policy. Sets the scheduling priority for non-boot virtual CPUs. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.sched.dita" >Configuring vCPU Scheduling and Priority</xref>
</li>
<li>Minimum Number of CPUs. Sets the minimum number of virtual CPUs for the flavor.</li>
<li>Local Storage. Specifies whether to use local or remote ephemeral storage resources. For more information, see <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.storage.dita" >Specifying Local Storage for a VM</xref>.</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <b>Create</b> to create a new the flavor.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>A message is displayed on successful creation.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4953"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<section id="editflavor"> <title>Edit a flavor</title>
<p>To edit a flavor:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>

<ul>
<li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change, either: the hLinux region or the Wind River Linux region.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Flavors</b> link.</p>

<p>The flavors in the domain are listed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the flavor you want to modify, click <b>Edit Flavor</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Edit Flavor</b> screen, click the <b>Flavor Info</b> tab (should be active).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use the <b>Flavor Info</b> and <b>Flavor Access</b> tabs to modify the flavor as needed. See <xref type="section" href="#topic4953/createflavor">Create a flavor</xref> for a description of each field.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When done editing, click <b>Save</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>A message is displayed on successful edit.</p>
<p>You can also specify the extra spec from the CLI using the following command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name set hw:cpu_model=cpu_model

where cpu_model is one of Nehalem, Westmere, SandyBridge, or Haswell. If the hw:cpu_model parameter is not supplied with the nova flavor-key command, then the default QEMU model is used.
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4953"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="editmeta"> <title>Managing Metadata</title>
<p>Compute uses a metadata service for virtual machine instances to retrieve instance-specific data.</p>
<p>You can add and remove metadata for flavors, see <xref href="../MiscTasks/carrier-grade.dashboard.metadata.dita" >Managing Metadata</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4953"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="deleteflavor"> <title>Delete a flavor</title>
<p>Instances that use the flavor are not affected when a flavor is deleted.</p>
<p>To delete a flavor:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/carrier-grade.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>Flavors</b> link.</p>

<p>The flavors in the domain are listed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>For the flavor you want to modify, click the arrow icon in the <b>Actions</b> menu and select <b>Delete Flavor</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Flavor</b>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>A message is displayed on successful delete.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4953"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
