<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1437">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Pinning a vCPU to a Shared Physical CPU</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.pin.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/flavors/extra/vcpu/pin/--></p>
<p>You can pin a vCPU to a shared physical CPU by using a flavor with the required extra specification.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>You can set up a shared physical CPU on the host to run low-load or non-real-time tasks for multiple VMs, freeing other cores on the host for dedicated high-load tasks. You can then use an extra spec to pin a specified vCPU to the shared physical CPU.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> To use this extra spec, you must define a shared physical CPU on at least one host.</p>
<p>You must also set the CPU Policy extra specification for the flavor to Dedicated. This enables the high-load vCPUs for the instance to be pinned.</p>
<p>To add this extra spec to a flavor using the Horizon dashboard, use the VCPU Model selection in the <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.dita" >Create Flavor Extra Spec drop-down menu</xref>.</p>
<p>To set the Shared VCPU ID from the CLI, use a command of the following form:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name set
hw:wrs:shared_vcpu=vcpu_id
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>where <codeph>vcpu_id</codeph> is an integer that identifies the vcpu (starting from 0).</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1437"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
