<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2675">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Configuring vCPU Scheduling and Priority</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.vcpu.sched.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/carrier/dashboard/managing/flavors/extra/vcpu/sched/--></p>
<p>You can assign the Linux scheduler and priority for non-boot virtual CPUs using an extra specification.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This extra specification applies to non-boot virtual CPUs, and is available only for flavors that define more than one virtual CPU. For the boot CPU, the Linux scheduler and priority are fixed to non-real-time, with a nice priority of 0.</p>
<p>For each additional virtual CPU, the available options are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Default Policy - Assigns a non-real-time scheduling policy with nice priority of 0.</li>
<li>Real-Time FIFO - Assigns a real-time, first-in-first-out policy with nice priority of 1-99, specified in the associated VCPU Priority
field.</li>
<li>Real-Time Round Robin - Assigns a real-time, round-robin policy with nice priority of 1-99, specified in the associated <b>VCPU Priority</b> field.</li>
</ul>
<p>To add this extra spec to a flavor using the Horizon dashboard, use the VCPU Model selection in the <xref href="../Flavors/carrier-grade.dashboard.domains.flavors.extra.dita" >Create Flavor Extra Spec drop-down menu</xref>.</p>
<p>You can specify the scheduler policy and priority for non-boot virtual CPUs from the CLI using the <codeph>hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler</codeph> parameter on the <codeph>nova flavor-key</codeph> command. This parameter accepts a semicolon-separated list of scheduler:priority:vcpus values as follows.</p>
<ul>
<li>scheduler - The scheduler policy. One of other, fifo, or rr to indicate non real-time, FIFO, and Round Robin policies respectively.</li>
<li>priority - The real-time scheduler priority. A value between 1 and 99.</li>
<li>vcpus - A list of virtual CPUs as a comma-separated list (1,2,3) or a range specification (1-3). Virtual CPU number 0
refers to the boot virtual CPU and therefore cannot be used.</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <b>Examples</b>
</p>
<p>To set real-time schedulers and priorities on virtual CPU 1 (FIFO, 50) and virtual CPU 2 (Round Robin, 80):</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name set
hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler fifo:50:1;rr:80:2
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To set real-time Round Robin schedulers for three virtual CPU (Round Robin, 80):</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name set
hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler rr:80:1-3
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To set the FIFO scheduler with priority 50 on all virtual CPUs:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name set
hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler=fifo:50
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>To reset all scheduler settings to default values (non real-time scheduler with priority 0):</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>nova flavor-key flavor_name unset
hw:wrs:vcpu:scheduler
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2675"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
