---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Gateway Pools, Users and Sub-users, Access and Secret Keys"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-rados-gateway/
product: commercial
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Engineer
role2: Storage Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Storage Engineer
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
authors: Paul F

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href=" /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-rados-gateway/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href=" /helion/openstack/1.1/services/ceph/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/ /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-rados-gateway-keystone-authentication/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> 


# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Gateway Pools, Users and Sub-users, Access and Secret Keys #

This topic explains how Ceph Object Gateways create pools to store data and how users access these pools.

* [Pools](#pools)
* [User and Sub-User](#user-subuser)
* [Access and Secret Keys](#access-and-secret-key)

## Pools {#pools}

Ceph Object Gateways require Ceph Storage Cluster pools to store specific gateway data. If user created has permissions, gateway automatically creates pools.
To list available pools, enter:

	rados lspools

Verify that the .`rgw.buckets` and `.rgw.buckets.index` pools are created by default. If not, create these pools using `ceph osd pool create` command. For more details, refer to [http://https://ceph.com/docs/master/radosgw/config-ref/#pools](http://https://ceph.com/docs/master/radosgw/config-ref/#pools)


##User and Sub-User {#user-subuser}

The User is a user of the S3 interface, and Sub-user is a user of Swift interface. The sub-user is always associated to a user. For details, refer to https://ceph.com/docs/master/radosgw/admin/. 

* To create a User and a Sub-user, enter:

		radosgw-admin user create --subuser=s3User:swiftUser --display-name="First User " --key-type=swift --access=full



* Ensure that the user (**s3User**) and subuser (**s3User:swiftUser**) are stored in respective `.users.uid` and `.users.swift` pools.



##Access and Secret Keys {#access-and-secret-key}

S3 users and Swift users must have access and secret keys to enable end users and to interact with a gateway instance. S3 user access and its secret key are created by entering:

	radosgw-admin key create --uid=s3User --key-type=s3 --gen-access-key --gen-secret



The key generated must be free of JSON escape (\) characters.

If the user or application writes more than 1k containers, then modify the `max_buckets` variable. Also, right-sizing of Placement Groups per Pool is required. Ensure `max_buckets` is set to unlimited size by setting the value to 0. To do this, enter:

	radosgw-admin user modify --uid=s3User --max-buckets=0



## Next Steps

[Ceph RADOS Gateway- Keystone Authentication](/helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-rados-gateway-keystone-authentication/)



<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

---
