---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Ceph Monitoring"
permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-monitoring/
product: commercial
product-version1: HP Helion OpenStack
product-version2: HP Helion OpenStack 1.1
role1: Storage Engineer
role2: Storage Architect 
role3: Storage Administrator 
role4: Storage Engineer
role5: Service Developer 
role6: Cloud Administrator 
role7: Application Developer 
authors: Binamra S

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->


<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>
<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/kvm/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/openstack/1.1/install-beta/esx/">NEXT &#9654;</a> </p> -->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1: Ceph Monitoring

The HP Helion OpenStack&#174; built-in monitoring packages allow the administrative monitoring of  Ceph. The Icinga service, which runs on the Undercloud, helps the cloud admin to monitor  Ceph. Icinga is configured as follows:

1.	Icinga: The main alerting server that runs each check periodically on every host.
2.	Icinga-web: TThe UI tool used to view the monitoring results.
3.	`Check_mk`: The utility that runs on the undercloud controller and on the each of the hosts that must be monitored. This utility runs local checks and sends result back to the main server.
4.	`mk_livestatus`: It gathers the results of the checks.

Icinga-web can be accessed through  **https://&lt;undercloudcontrollerip>/icinga**. The default login credentials are as follows:

* Username:icingaadmin
* Password:icingaadmin


The servers for Helion OpenStack&#174; overcloud and the Undercloud are monitored. Also, Icinga monitors a list of the services and applications in the **Service Details**.


For Ceph Monitoring, the following scripts are run on Helion OpenStack&#174; overcloud controller nodes and reports back the check results to the Icinga service:

1.	`check_ceph_osd_status.sh`: Monitors the status of the available OSDs (if all are up and in the cluster)
2. `check_ceph_pg_status.sh`: Monitors the status of the placement groups (if all are active and clean)
3.	`check_ceph_health.sh`: Monitors the overall health of the ceph storage cluster

The Ceph checks run on every 10 seconds and reports back in the Icinga as follows:

1. `Ceph_OSD_Status`
2. `Ceph_PG_Status`
3. `Ceph_Cluster_Health`

The Ceph client installer script installs the Ceph health monitoring scripts in the `/usr/lib/check_mk_agent/local/` directory. The `check_mk` utility detects those scripts automatically through a cron job that runs periodically and begins using them to add the reporting details in the Icinga.
 
## Next Steps

[Ceph Storage Administration](/helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-helion-openstack-ceph-storage-administration-services/)


<a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a>

----
