<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qtp_cn3_bt">
  <title>Notes and Limitations</title>
  <body>
    <section id="notes"><title>Notes</title>
      <b>Domains</b>
      <ul>
        <li>Domains can be created and managed by the Keystone API and OpenStackClient CLI.</li>
        <li>End users can authenticate to a particular project and domain via the Keystone API and
          OpenStackClient CLI.</li>

        <li>The configuration of external authentication systems requires the creation and usage of
          Domains.</li>
        <li>All configurations are managed by creating and editing specific configuration files. </li>
        <li>End users can authenticate to a particular project and domain via the Keystone API and
          OpenStackClient CLI.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Keystone-to-Keystone Federation</b>
      <ul>
        <li>Keystone-to-Keystone (K2K) Federation provides the ability to authenticate once with one
          cloud and then use these credentials to access resources on other federated clouds.</li>
        <li>All configurations are managed by creating and editing specific configuration files.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <b>Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</b>
      <ul>
        <li>The Keystone architecture provides support for MFA deployments.</li>
        <li>MFA provides the ability to deploy non-password based authentication; for example: token
          providing hardware and text messages.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Hierarchical Multitenancy</b>
      <ul>

        <li>Provides the ability to create sub-projects within a Domain-Project hierarchy.</li>


      </ul>
    </section>



    <section id="limitations">
      <title>Limitations</title>
      <b>Domains</b><ul id="ul_ks2_jpd_bt">

        <li>No Horizon web portal support currently exists for Domains. <ul id="ul_p52_jpd_bt">
            <li>Users cannot currently select a Domain when logging into Horizon</li>
            <li>No domains created by API or CLI will be visible in Horizon</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
      <b>Authentication with external authentication systems (LDAP, Active Directory (AD) or
        Identity Providers)</b><ul id="ul_u52_jpd_bt">

        <li>No Horizon web portal support currently exists for the creation and management of
          external authentication system configurations.</li>

        <li>A new Domain Admin API has been included in the Kilo release of OpenStack but is
          currently an "experimental" function and is not recommended for production use until a
          future OpenStack release.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Keystone-to-Keystone Federation</b><ul id="ul_xw2_jpd_bt">


        <li>No Horizon web portal support currently exists for the creation and management of
          federation configurations.</li>
        <li>All end users authentication is available only via the Keystone API and OpenStackClient
          CLI.</li>
        <li>No current HP documentation is available for this function.</li>
        <li>Additional information can be found at <xref
            href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configure_federation.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configure_federation.html</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <b>Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</b>
      <ul id="ul_az2_jpd_bt">


        <li>Helion OpenStack MFA support is a custom configuration requiring HP Professional
          Services support.</li>
        <li>MFA drivers are not included with Helion OpenStack and need to be provided by a specific
          MFA vendor.</li>
        <li>Additional information can be found at <xref
            href="http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/identity-authentication-methods.html#identity-authentication-methods-external-authentication-methods"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/identity-authentication-methods.html#identity-authentication-methods-external-authentication-methods</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <b>Hierarchical Multitenancy</b>
      <ul id="ul_tbf_jpd_bt">

        <li>Requires additional OpenStack service support prior to being used for general use.</li>
        <li>Recommended currently only for test deployments.</li>
        <li>Additional information can be found at <xref
            href="http://specs.openstack.org/openstack/keystone-specs/specs/juno/hierarchical_multitenancy.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://specs.openstack.org/openstack/keystone-specs/specs/juno/hierarchical_multitenancy.html</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
