<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qmz_fg3_bt">
  <title>Keystone Installation</title>
  <body>
    <section id="installation"><title>Installing Keystone</title>
      <p>Keystone is a vital part of HP Helion OpenStack&#174;, and as such it is installed
        automatically by the Helion OpenStack installer (just after MySQL and RabbitMQ). The
        recommended way of installing Keystone is to allow the default configuration used by the
        installer. Once your cloud is up and running, you can add features (like LDAP integration)
        via the Keystone reconfiguration process. Please refer to <xref
          href="keystone_reconfigure.dita">Reconfiguring Keystone</xref> for more information.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Default Settings</title>
      <p><b>Keystone Configuration Settings</b></p>
      <p>The Keystone identity service configuration options are described in the OpenStack
        documentation on the <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/kilo/config-reference/content/keystone-configuration-file.html"
          format="html" scope="external">identity service configuration file (for Kilo) page</xref>
        on the OpenStack site.</p>
      <p><b>Default Domain and Service Accounts</b></p>
      <p>The "default" domain is automatically created during the Keystone installation to contain
        the various, required OpenStack service accounts including the following:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>neutron</li>
        <li>glance</li>
        <li>swift-monitor</li>
        <li>ceilometer</li>
        <li>swift</li>
        <li>monasca-agent</li>
        <li>glance-swift</li>
        <li>swift-demo</li>
        <li>nova</li>
        <li>monascal</li>
        <li>logging</li>
        <li>demo </li>
        <li>heat</li>
        <li>cinder</li>
        <li>admin</li>
      </ul>
      <p>These are required accounts and are used by the underlying OpenStack services. These
        accounts should not be removed or reassigned to a different domain. The "default" domain
        should only be used for these service accounts.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
