<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2209">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Networks Used in the Deployment Scenarios</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-networks.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/networks/--></p>
<p>Each virtual machine is attached to three networks.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>Private tenant network</b> (<codeph>tenant1-net</codeph> or <codeph>tenant2-net</codeph>) - These networks are created by the end users for private use. They can be used to connect the virtual machines to testing equipment.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Internal network</b> (<codeph>internal</codeph>) This network is created by the system administrator and shared by the tenants. It provides network connectivity between the two private tenant networks.</p>

<p>The private tenant networks and the internal network illustrate the use of high-performance tenant networking on the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade platform. Each virtual machine provides a Layer 2 or Layer 3 switched path to link the tenant's private network and the internal network.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Management network</b> (<codeph>tenant1-mgmt-net</codeph> and <codeph>tenant2-mgmt-net</codeph>) -  These networks are created by the system administrator on behalf of the end users. Each management network connects using a virtual router to a shared external network owned by the system administrator. The shared external network provides access to other networks, including the open Internet, as needed.</p>

<p>The management network illustrates how to configure an access network for managing instances. For example, it can be used to provide provisioning access over an Internet connection to a router application running on a virtual machine.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> The management network, in combination with a virtual router, also provides connectivity between the virtual machine and platform services running on compute nodes. In particular, it enables communication with the <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> metadata server, which provides access to instance-specific data (user data) when an instance is started.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2209"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
