<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3069">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Setting Up Tenant Networks Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-tenant.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/tenant/--></p>
<p>You can use the CLI to set up tenant networks and their associated IP subnets.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This exercise sets up the tenant networks <codeph>external-net</codeph>, <codeph>internal-net</codeph>, <codeph>tenant1-mgmt-net</codeph>, and <codeph>tenant2-mgmt-net</codeph>. IP subnets are created for the first two networks only. IP subnets for the tenant networks are created by the users <codeph>user1</codeph> and <codeph>user2</codeph> in a separate task.</p>
<ol>
<li>Create and configure the tenant network <codeph>external-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-create --tenant-id ${admin_tenant_UUID} \
--provider:physical_network=provider-net-a \
--provider:segmentation_id=10 --router:external external-net
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Define the IP
          subnet.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron subnet-create --tenant-id ${admin_tenant_UUID} \
--name external-subnet --gateway 192.168.2.1 --disable-dhcp external-net 192.168.2.0/24
</codeph></codeblock><p>c.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new tenant
        network.</p><codeblock><codeph>export external_net_UUID=`neutron net-list \
| grep external-net | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Create and configure the tenant network <codeph>internal-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-create --tenant-id ${admin_tenant_UUID} \
--provider:physical_network=provider-net-b \
--shared internal-net
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Define the IP subnet.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron subnet-create --tenant-id ${admin_tenant_UUID} \
--name internal-subnet \
--no-gateway --vlan-id 5 internal-net 10.1.1.0/24
</codeph></codeblock><p>
          <b>Note:</b> The <codeph>--vlan-id 5</codeph> option indicates that packets sent to this
          subnet by any virtual machine must be tagged with VLAN ID 5.</p><p>c. Set up the UUID
          variable for the new tenant
        network.</p><codeblock><codeph>export internal_net_UUID=`neutron net-list \
| grep internal-net | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Create the tenant network <codeph>tenant1-mgmt-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-create --tenant-id ${tenant1_UUID} \
--provider:physical_network=provider-net-a tenant1-mgmt-net
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new tenant
        network.</p><codeblock><codeph>export tenant1_mgmt_net_UUID=`neutron net-list \
| grep tenant1-mgmt-net | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Create the tenant network <codeph>tenant2-mgmt-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-create --tenant-id ${tenant2_UUID} \
--provider:physical_network=provider-net-a tenant2-mgmt-net
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>export tenant2_mgmt_net_UUID=`neutron net-list \
| grep tenant2-mgmt-net | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          external and internal tenant networks are set up and ready to be used. The tenant
          management networks are available, but their IP subnets have yet to be created.</p><p>The
          tenant networks are assigned segmentation IDs automatically. You can list the assigned IDs
          for a provider network as
        follows:</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-list-on-providernet provider-net-a
</codeph></codeblock></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3069"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
