<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5693">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 1.1: Launching Instances Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-launch.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/launch/--></p>
<p>You can use the CLI to launch virtual machine instances.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>To launch an instance, the end user must set up some required resources. In this task, <codeph>user1</codeph> sets up the resources and
then launches an instance on <codeph>tenant1</codeph>.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> You must repeat this exercise as <codeph>user2</codeph>, substituting appropriate names for the tenant networks and other components, to launch a similar instance on <codeph>tenant2</codeph>.</p>
<ol>
<li>Identify yourself as user user1 to the
        system.<codeblock>source /etc/nova/openrc.user1</codeblock></li>
<li>Register a public key for tenant
          tenant1.<codeblock>nova keypair-add --pub_key ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub tenant1- <codeph>hostname</codeph> </codeblock><p>This
          command injects the existing key-pair of the Linux root account into the Nova database
          with the name <codeph>tenant1-controller-0</codeph> (assuming that the name of the host is
            <codeph>controller-0</codeph>). This named key-pair can be used to provide SSH access to
          the virtual machines when they are launched. You can use other available key-pairs or
          create new ones as required.</p></li>
<li>Create and configure the tenant network <codeph>tenant1-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the tenant
          network.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron net-create tenant1-net
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Define the IP
          subnet.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron subnet-create --name tenant1-subnet \
--no-gateway tenant1-net 172.31.1.0/24
</codeph></codeblock><p>c.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new tenant
        network.</p><codeblock><codeph>export tenant1_net_UUID=`neutron net-list | grep tenant1-net | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Configure the tenant network <codeph>tenant1-mgmt-net</codeph>.<p>a. Create the management IP
          subnet.</p><codeblock><codeph>~(keystone_user1)$ neutron subnet-create --name tenant1-mgmt-subnet \
tenant1-mgmt-net 192.168.102.0/24
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Create the virtual router
          tenant1-router.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron router-create tenant1-router
</codeph></codeblock><p>c.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new virtual
          router.</p><codeblock><codeph>export tenant1_router_UUID=`neutron router-list \
| grep tenant1-router | awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock><p>d.
          Connect the virtual router to the management IP
          subnet.</p><codeblock><codeph>neutron router-interface-add tenant1-router tenant1-mgmt-subnet
</codeph></codeblock><p>e.
          Set up the UUID variable for the new tenant network.</p><p>export
            external_net_UUID=<codeph>neutron net-list \ | grep external-net | awk '{print
            $2}'</codeph>
        </p><p>f. Add a default gateway interface to the tenant network
            <codeph>external-net</codeph>.</p><codeblock><codeph>eutron router-gateway-set ${tenant1_router_UUID}
{external_net_UUID}
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Select the launch options.<p>a. Select the type of virtual switching to use: Linux kernel
          bridging, DPDK-accelerated virtual switch, or Linux router.</p><p>The type of switching is
          specified in a user data file supplied as an argument to the --user-data option. For more
          information, see [Setting Up User Data Using the CLI](#datacli}.</p><p>b. Select the type
          of virtual interface, virtio or AVP, to connect to the tenant networks.</p><p>This is done
          by specifying the virtual interface model to be associated with each virtual NIC. Use the
          options <codeph>vif-model=virtio</codeph>, and <codeph>vif-model=avp</codeph>, for the
          virtio and AVP ports respectively.</p><p>Note: To change the interface type or the
          allocated NIC order, you must restart the instance with a new port assignment.</p><p>c.
          Select the virtual machine flavor to use.</p><p>Use the option --flavor to specify the
          flavor.</p></li>
<li>Create UUID variables for the tenant
        networks.<codeblock>export tenant1_mgmt_net_UUID=<codeph>neutron net-list \ | grep tenant1-mgmt-net | awk '{print $2}'</codeph> </codeblock><codeblock>export tenant2_mgmt_net_UUID=<codeph>neutron net-list \ | grep tenant2-mgmt-net | awk '{print $2}'</codeph> </codeblock></li>
<li>Create a UUID variable for the Cinder
        volume.<codeblock>export vol_UUID=<codeph>cinder list | grep vol-example-guest \ | awk '{print $2}'</codeph> </codeblock></li>
<li>Launch the instances on both tenants.</li>
</ol>
<p>The following example launches an instance named <codeph>tenant1-kernel-bridging</codeph>, using a Linux bridge.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>nova boot --poll --key_name=tenant1-controller-0 \
--block_device_mapping vda=${vol_UUID}:::0 \
--user-data=/usr/share/userdata/linux-bridge.txt \
--flavor=100 \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_mgmt_net_UUID},vif-model=virtio \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
--nic net-id=${internal_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
tenant1-kernel-bridging
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> The order in which the network interfaces are selected determines how they are enumerated for the instance.</p>
<p>This example uses the following order: eth0 (<codeph>tenant1-mgmt-net</codeph>) of the virtio type, and eth1 (<codeph>tenant1-net</codeph>) and eth2 (<codeph>internal-net</codeph>) of the avp type.</p>
<p>The following example launches an instance named tenant1-dpdk bridging, using an AVP virtual network interface, and the DPDK-accelerated virtual switch.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>nova boot --poll --key_name=tenant1-controller-0 \
--block_device_mapping vda=${vol_UUID}:::0 \
--user-data=/usr/share/userdata/linux-dpdk-vswitch.txt \
--flavor=101 \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_mgmt_net_UUID},vif-model=virtio \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
--nic net-id=${internal_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
tenant1-dpdk-bridging
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>The following example launches an instance named tenant1-routing, using AVP virtual network interfaces and a Linux router.</p>
<codeblock><codeph>nova boot --poll --key_name=tenant1-controller-0 \
--block_device_mapping vda=${vol_UUID}:::0 \
--user-data=/usr/share/userdata/tenant1-linux-router.txt \
--flavor=101 \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_mgmt_net_UUID},vif-model=virtio \
--nic net-id=${tenant1_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
--nic net-id=${internal_net_UUID},vif-model=avp \
tenant1-routing
</codeph></codeblock>
<p>The instances are now running. Each one establishes a bridge or router between the last two interfaces in the command line, that is, between the tenant networks tenant1-net and internal-net.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic5693"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
