<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2478">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating Login Environment Files for Users</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-environ.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/environ/--></p>
<p>Using the CLI, you can create scripts to define user login environments.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This exercise creates the scripts <codeph>/etc/nova/openrc.user1</codeph> and <codeph>/etc/nova/openrc.user2</codeph>. The new scripts are created by copying the original admin login environment script <codeph>/etc/nova/openrc</codeph>, and replacing the admin user identifier and its current password with new values.</p>
<ol>
<li>Create the login environment script for user <codeph>user1</codeph>.<p>a. Copy the environment
          script used by the user
          admin.</p><codeblock><codeph>cp /etc/nova/openrc /etc/nova/openrc.user1
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Edit the new file to include the new login credentials.</p><p>The modified file should
          look similar to the one illustrated below:</p><codeblock><codeph>export OS_USERNAME=user1
export OS_TENANT_NAME=tenant1
export OS_PASSWORD=`TERM=linux /usr/bin/keyring get 'CGCS' user1`
export OS_AUTH_URL=http://192.168.204.2:35357/v2.0/
export CGTS_URL=http://192.168.204.2:6385
export PS1='[\u@\h \W(keystone_user1)]\$ '
</codeph></codeblock><p>
          <b>Note:</b> The IP address shown here is an example, based on the default controller node
          floating address suggested during the controller configuration script. Depending on your
          system configuration, the actual IP address may be different.</p><p>The login environment
          script for user <codeph>user1</codeph>, with password <codeph>user1</codeph>, is now
          available.</p></li>
<li>Create the login environment script for user <codeph>user2</codeph>.<p>a. Copy the environment
          script used by the user
          admin.</p><codeblock><codeph>cp /etc/nova/openrc /etc/nova/openrc.user2
</codeph></codeblock><p>b.
          Edit the new file to include the new login credentials.</p><p>The modified file should
          look similar to the one illustrated
          below:</p><codeblock><codeph>export OS_USERNAME=user2
export OS_TENANT_NAME=tenant2
export OS_PASSWORD=`TERM=linux /usr/bin/keyring get 'CGCS' user2`
export OS_AUTH_URL=http://192.168.204.2:35357/v2.0/
export CGTS_URL=http://192.168.9.204:6385
export PS1='[\u@\h \W(keystone_user2)]\$ '
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          login environment script for user <codeph>user2</codeph>, with password
            <codeph>user2</codeph>, is now available.</p><p>The two new user login environments are
          available. You can source them in order to execute commands with the corresponding user
          identities.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic2478"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
