<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1722">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Establishing Provider Networks Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-provider.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/provider/--></p>
<p>You can use the CLI to add the provider networks required to support tenant networks.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Provider networks are required before compute nodes can be unlocked. For this reason, they are often set up as part of system installation.</p>
<p>The scenarios assume that two provider networks, provider-net-a and provider-net-b, have already been set up as part of system installation. For convenience, the instructions to set up these provider networks are repeated here. If you already have two provider networks with different names, you can use them instead, substituting their names in the following exercises.</p>
<p>For more information about setting up provider networks, see the <i>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade Software Installation Guide: Configuring Provider Networks</i>.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the active controller as the Keystone admin
        user.<codeblock><codeph>source /etc/nova/openrc
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>On the active controller's console, create the two example provider networks.<p>neutron
          providernet-create provider-net-a --type vlan</p><p>neutron providernet-create
          provider-net-b --type vlan</p><p>Both provider networks are created as type vlan. This
          means that they can be segmented, or restricted to operate over a range of specific VLAN
          identifiers.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1722/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
