<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1434">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): Setting Up Flavors Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-flavor.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/flavors/--></p>
<p>You can use the CLI to define virtual hardware resource profiles, or flavors, for use when launching virtual machines.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>Available flavors and their IDs can be listed using the following command:</p>
<codeblock><codeph>nova flavor-list
</codeph></codeblock>
<ol>
<li>Define the flavor
          <codeph>example-guest.tiny</codeph>.<codeblock><codeph>nova flavor-create example-guest.tiny 100 512 0 1 \
--dedicated-cpus true
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          flavor <codeph>example-guest.tiny</codeph> is created with ID 100. New virtual machines
          using this flavor are allocated 512 MB of memory, no disks, and one dedicated virtual
          CPU.</p></li>
<li>Define the flavor
          <codeph>example-guest.small</codeph>.<codeblock><codeph>nova flavor-create example-guest.small 101 512 0 2 \
--dedicated-cpus true
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          flavor <codeph>example-guest.small</codeph> is created with ID 101. New virtual machines
          using this flavor are allocated 512 MB of memory, no disks, and two dedicated virtual
          CPUs.</p><p>The two flavors <codeph>example-guest.tiny</codeph> and
            <codeph>example-guest.small</codeph> are now available. You can use them as resource
          allocation directives when launching new virtual machines.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1434"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
