<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1837">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade (Beta): VM Network Interface Options</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-interface.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/interface/--></p>
<p>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade supports both virtio and performance-optimized AVP network interface drivers.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<ul>
<li>
<p>
<b>virtio</b> -  The standard interface type for I/O virtualization in Linux. This type can be used with the Linux bridge application or the router application described in these scenarios.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<b>Accelerated Virtual Port (AVP)</b> - A high-performance virtual network interface available exclusively on the HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade server. This type can be used with the Linux bridge application, the DPDK-accelerated bridge application, or the router application
described in these scenarios.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The deployment scenarios demonstrate the use of AVP interfaces with three types of virtualized network functions (VNFs): a Linux bridge, a DPDK-accelerated bridge, and a router. This illustrates the flexibility provided by HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">Openstack</tm> Carrier Grade to adapt to different deployment scenarios.</p>
<p>The port assignments for the interfaces are based on the order in which the interfaces are arranged in the web administration interface, or defined in the command-line interface, when the instance is launched. The type of virtual network interface for each port is selected from a list in the web administration interface, or encoded in a <codeph>vif-model</codeph> attribute on the command line.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1837"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
