<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1723">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) Carrier Grade (Beta): Creating Tenants and Updating Quotas Using the CLI</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R)"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/DeploymentScenarios/carrier-grade-deployment-cli-tenants.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/deploy/cli/tenants/--></p>
<p>You can use the CLI to create and configure tenants.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>This exercise creates the tenants tenant1 and tenant2, and sets up their resource quotas.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the active controller as the Keystone admin
        user.<codeblock><codeph>$ source /etc/nova/openrc
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Create a project (or, tenant)
        <codeph>tenant1</codeph>.<codeblock><codeph>keystone tenant-create --name tenant1
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Create a project (or, tenant)
        <codeph>tenant2</codeph>.<codeblock><codeph>keystone tenant-create --name tenant2
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Set up the UUID variables for the new
        tenants.<codeblock><codeph>export tenant1_UUID=`keystone tenant-list | grep tenant1 | \
awk '{print $2}'`

export tenant2_UUID=`keystone tenant-list | grep tenant2 | \
awk '{print $2}'`
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Adjust networking resource quotas for the
        projects.<codeblock><codeph>neutron quota-update --subnet 32 --network 32 --port 128 \
--tenant-id ${tenant1_UUID}

neutron quota-update --subnet 32 --network 32 --port 128 \
--tenant-id ${tenant2_UUID}
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Adjust VM quotas for the
        tenants.<codeblock><codeph>{tenant1_UUID} --instances 20 -- cores 40 \
--floating_ips 20

nova quota-update ${tenant2_UUID} --instances 20 -- cores 40 \
--floating_ips 20
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Adjust networking resource quotas for the tenant
          admin.<codeblock><codeph>neutron quota-update --subnet 32 --tenant-id {admin_tenant_UUID}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          two additional tenants are available now, with quotas established.</p></li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1723"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</body>
</topic>
