<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cue_ops_loadbalancer">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Accessing RabbitMQ via a Load Balancer</title>
<body>
  <p>Clustering and load balancing connect multiple nodes to form one single logical broker. Virtual hosts, exchanges, users and permissions are mirrored across all nodes in a cluster. 
    A client connecting to any node can see all the queues in a cluster. Clustering enables high availability of queues and increases the throughput.</p>
  <section id="haproxy"><title>HAProxy</title>
    <p>There are several options for a load balancer solution, including hardware and software. Any type of load balance can be used for a rabbitmq cluster. This document will demonstrate
      how to use HAproxy.</p>
    <p><b>Installation</b></p>
    <p>To set up a load balancer for the rabbitmq cluster, create a VM on the same network as the cluster, install HAProxy, and configure it.</p>
    <p><b>Create VM</b></p>
    <p>To create a VM for the load balancer, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Create a security group for this VM. The security group will need to open ports 22, 5672, and 15672:
      <codeblock>stack@rd-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt:~$ nova secgroup-create haproxy haproxy
+--------------------------------------+---------+-------------+
| Id                                   | Name    | Description |
+--------------------------------------+---------+-------------+
| 6e5006f5-1166-4522-be3f-2a0cfe1c5655 | haproxy | haproxy     |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
 
stack@env-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt:~$ nova secgroup-add-rule haproxy tcp 22 22 0.0.0.0/0
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| IP Protocol | From Port | To Port | IP Range  | Source Group |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| tcp         | 22        | 22      | 0.0.0.0/0 |              |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
 
stack@env-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt:~/msgaas$ nova secgroup-add-rule haproxy tcp 5672 5672 0.0.0.0/0
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| IP Protocol | From Port | To Port | IP Range  | Source Group |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| tcp         | 5672      | 5672    | 0.0.0.0/0 |              |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
 
stack@env-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt:~/msgaas$ nova secgroup-add-rule haproxy tcp 15672 15672 0.0.0.0/0
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| IP Protocol | From Port | To Port | IP Range  | Source Group |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+
| tcp         | 15672     | 15672   | 0.0.0.0/0 |              |
+-------------+-----------+---------+-----------+--------------+</codeblock></li>
      <li>Create the keypair to SSH into the VM. You can also use an existing keypair if you already have one:
      <codeblock>nova keypair-add --pub-key my-key.pub my-key</codeblock></li>
      <li>Create the VM. Make sure you select the same network where the rabbitmq cluster is. For this tutorial, you'll use an <b>Ubuntu 14.04</b> image.
      <codeblock>stack@env-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt:~/msgaas$ nova boot --poll --nic net-id=39c8768d-edd7-4cbf-b109-33752d241f06 --image 6ac3d39c-5d22-44bb-893f-17f5312ded44 --key-name msgaas-redwood --security-group haproxy --flavor m1.small  steve-cue-haproxy
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| Property                             | Value                                               |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
| OS-EXT-AZ:availability_zone          | nova                                                |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:host                 | -                                                   |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:hypervisor_hostname  | -                                                   |
| OS-EXT-SRV-ATTR:instance_name        | instance-00000021                                   |
| OS-EXT-STS:power_state               | 0                                                   |
| OS-EXT-STS:task_state                | scheduling                                          |
| OS-EXT-STS:vm_state                  | building                                            |
| OS-SRV-USG:launched_at               | -                                                   |
| OS-SRV-USG:terminated_at             | -                                                   |
| accessIPv4                           |                                                     |
| accessIPv6                           |                                                     |
| adminPass                            | Z9Zarehu8LfX                                        |
| config_drive                         |                                                     |
| created                              | 2015-10-27T21:48:09Z                                |
| flavor                               | m1.small (2)                                        |
| hostId                               |                                                     |
| id                                   | 1b995c26-8e72-417c-9b6a-12066b2a9e1f                |
| image                                | Ubuntu 14.04 (6ac3d39c-5d22-44bb-893f-17f5312ded44) |
| key_name                             | my-key                                              |
| metadata                             | {}                                                  |
| name                                 | steve-cue-haproxy                                   |
| os-extended-volumes:volumes_attached | []                                                  |
| progress                             | 0                                                   |
| security_groups                      | haproxy                                             |
| status                               | BUILD                                               |
| tenant_id                            | 1d2110bc79004439934250748f528c82                    |
| updated                              | 2015-10-27T21:48:09Z                                |
| user_id                              | 42ec65af6d2d49a58676ec24321b7524                    |
+--------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------+</codeblock></li>
      <li>Associate a floating IP with the VM:
      <codeblock>nova floating-ip-associate steve-cue-haproxy 10.241.234.5</codeblock></li>
      <li>Connect to the VM: 
      <codeblock>ssh ubuntu@10.241.234.5 -i my-key.pem</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
    <p><b>Install HAProxy</b></p>
    <p>Once the VM has been created and you are connected, follow these steps to install and configure HAProxy:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Elevate to root: <codeph>sudo -i</codeph></li>
      <li>If your environment uses a proxy, set up your proxy file:
        <ul>
          <li>Create a file called <codeph>01proxy</codeph> in <codeph>/etc/apt/apt.conf.d</codeph></li>
          <li>Add the following: <codeph>Acquire::http::Proxy "http://&lt;proxy-ip&gt;:&lt;proxy-port&gt;";</codeph></li>
        </ul></li>
        <li>Update apt source: <codeph>apt-get update</codeph></li>
        <li>Install haproxy: <codeph>apt-get install haproxy</codeph></li>
        <li>Edit <codeph>/etc/default/haproxy</codeph>. Set: <codeph>ENABLE=1</codeph></li>
        <li>Open <codeph>/etc/haproxy/haproxy.cfg</codeph> and append the following to the end. Fill in the IPs of the clusters:
        <codeblock>...
listen my-cue-cluster :5672
    mode tcp
    retries 3
    maxconn 2000
    balance roundrobin
    option clitcpka
    timeout client 10m
    timeout server 10m
    server cue-cluster-node-1 &lt;cluster-node-1-ip&gt;:5672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
    server cue-cluster-node-2 &lt;cluster-node-2-ip&gt;:5672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
    server cue-cluster-node-3 &lt;cluster-node-3-ip&gt;:5672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
listen my-cue-cluster-management :15672
    mode tcp
    retries 3
    maxconn 2000
    balance roundrobin
    option redispatch
    timeout client 10m
    timeout server 10m
    server cue-cluster-node-1 &lt;cluster-node-1-ip&gt;:15672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
    server cue-cluster-node-2 &lt;cluster-node-2-ip&gt;:15672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
    server cue-cluster-node-3 &lt;cluster-node-3-ip&gt;:15672 check inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3</codeblock></li>
      <li>Restart HAProxy: <codeph>service haproxy restart</codeph></li>
    </ol>
    <p><b>Verify the installation</b></p>
    <p>After these steps, your HAProxy should be configured and ready to use. You should now be able to reach the RabbitMQ cluster via the floating IP address. 
      You can also access the RabbitMQ management console by browsing to http://&lt;floating-ip&gt;:15672</p>
  </section>
  
  
</body>
</topic>
