<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_obc_pgf_nt">
  <title>Authentication and Credentials</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>As with any OpenStack utility, <b>python-cueclient</b> requires certain information to talk
        to the REST API. </p>
      <p>All parameters are required unless specified optional.</p></section>
    <section><title>Pass Credentials on the Command Line</title>
      <p>To pass credentials on the command line, use the <codeph>--os-username</codeph>,
          <codeph>--os-password</codeph>, <codeph>--os-project-name</codeph>,
          -<codeph>-os-auth-url</codeph>, <codeph>--os-project-domain-name</codeph>,
          <codeph>--os-user-domain-name</codeph> and <codeph>--os-region-name</codeph> parameters. <note>
          <sl>
            <sli>The region name parameter is optional. If the authentication service returns
              multiple regions, the first one in the returned list will be used. </sli><sli>The <codeph>--os-tenant-name</codeph> parameter has been deprecated.</sli>
          </sl>
        </note></p></section>
    
    <section><title>Pass Credentials as Environment Variables</title>
      <p>To pass credentials as environment variables, use:</p>
      <pre>export OS_USERNAME=&lt;your_username&gt;
export OS_PASSWORD=&lt;your_password&gt;
export OS_PROJECT_NAME=&lt;project_name&gt; 
export OS_AUTH_URL=&lt;url_to_openstack_identity&gt;
export OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME=&lt;project domain name<b>></b>
export OS_USER_DOMAIN_NAME=&lt;user domain name<b>></b>
export OS_REGION_NAME</pre>
    </section>
    <note>The region name parameter is optional. If the authentication service returns multiple
      regions, the first one in the returned list will be used.</note>
    <section>
      <title>Sample</title>
      <p>This sample is standard authentication against Keystone v3.</p><codeblock outputclass="language-python">#!/usr/bin/env python

from keystoneclient.auth.identity import v3 as keystone_v3_auth
from keystoneclient import session as keystone_session

auth = keystone_v3_auth.Password(
        auth_url="http://example.com:5000/v3",
        username="admin",
        password="password",
        project_name="admin",
        project_domain_name="default",
        user_domain_name="default", 
        region-name="region A"
)</codeblock>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
