<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3262">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Adding and Removing Subnets</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforAdmins/Network/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.subnet.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/subnet/--></p>
<p>When a  <xref href="CGH-2-User-network-create.dita#topic3372">network is created</xref>, a
      subnet (short for <i>subnetwork</i>) can be assigned upon creation. However, you might need to
      add a subnet to a network at a later time.</p>
<p>A subnet is a logically visible subdivision of a network. A subnet enables you to group instances logically, while maintaining a single network address to connect to the Internet.</p>
<p>An admin user can create and delete subnets as needed.</p>
    <p><b>Note:</b> Before you delete a subnet, you must first <xref
        href="CGH-2-User-network-ports.dita#topic3171">delete all ports</xref>  associated with the
      subnet.</p>
<section id="add-a-subnet"> <title>Add a subnet</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>Network</b> panel. <p>The network(s) for
            the selected project appear.</p></li>
<li>Click the name of the network you want to work with.</li>
<li>On the <b>Network Detail</b> page click <b>Create Subnet</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Subnet</b> tab of the <b>Create Network</b> screen:<p>
            <ol id="ol_wwt_p1y_3t">
              <li>Enter the subnet name.</li>
              <li>Enter a network address range for the subnet in CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain
                Routing) format in the <b>Network Address</b> field, for example:
                  <codeph>192.168.0.0/24</codeph>.</li>
              <li>Select IPv4 or IPv6, as appropriate, in the IP Version field.</li>
              <li>Enter a gateway IP address from the subnet or leave the <b>Gateway IP</b> field
                blank to use the default value for the gateway IP address; for example,
                  <codeph>192.168.0.1</codeph> for <codeph>192.168.0.0/24</codeph>.</li>
              <li>Leave <b>Disable Gateway</b> clear to enable the default gateway for this network,
                or select <b>Disable Gateway</b> to create the network with no default gateway.</li>
            </ol>
          </p></li>
<li>Click <b>Next</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Subnet Details</b> tab:<p>
            <ol id="ol_nxl_t1y_3t">
              <li>Clear the <b>Enable DHCP</b> option, as needed, to not use the network as a DCHP.
                DHCP is enabled by default. If enabled, the subnet will serve as your DHCP server.
                Instances associated with the subnet will be assigned an IP address from this
                pool.</li>
              <li>Optionally, enter the starting and ending IP addresses you want for your DHCP
                allocation pool in the <b>Allocation Pools</b> field, in the format
                  <codeph>IPADDR,IPADDR</codeph>. For example:
                  <codeph>192.168.1.10,192.168.1.120</codeph>. By deafult, the server has an
                application pool starting with <codeph>10.0.0.0/24</codeph>.</li>
              <li>Optionally, enter the IP Address of your subnet in the <b>DNS Name Servers</b>
                field. If blank, your subnet will default to using HP's internal DNS which uses
                DNSMASQ.</li>
              <li>Optionally, enter the Destination CIDR and Next Hop for your subnet in the <b>Host
                  Routes</b> field to create host routes.</li>
            </ol>
          </p></li>
<li>Click <b>Create</b>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deleteport"> <title>Delete a subnet</title>
<p>Before you delete a subnet, you must first <xref href="CGH-2-User-network-ports.dita#topic3171"
          >delete all ports</xref> associated with the subnet.</p>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>Network</b> panel. <p>The network(s) for
            the selected project appear.</p></li>
<li>Click the name of the network you want to work with.</li>
<li>On the <b>Network Detail</b> page, for the subnet you want to delete, click <b>Edit Network</b>
          then <b>Delete Subnet</b>.</li>
<li>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Subnet</b>.<p>A message appears indicating if the
            subnet was deleted successfully.</p></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
