<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3372">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Creating or Deleting Networks</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Networks/1.1commercial.dashboard.network.create.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/network/create/--></p>
<p>A network is a pluggable, scalable and API-driven system for managing networks and IP addresses.</p>
<p>A non-admin user or admin user can <xref type="section" href="#topic3372/createnet">create</xref> and <xref type="section" href="#topic3372/deletenet">delete</xref> networks as needed.</p>
<section id="createnet"> <title>Create a network</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>Network</b> panel.
          <p>The network(s) for
          the selected project appear.</p></li>
<li>Click <b>Create Network</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Network</b> table:<ul>
            <li>Enter a name for the network.</li>
            <li>Leave <b>Admin State</b> selected to launch the network in the enabled state or
              clear the field to disable the new network.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Next</b> to configure a subnet for the network.</li>
<li>On the <b>Subnet</b> tab:<ul>
            <li>Enter the subnet name.</li>
            <li>Enter a network address range for the subnet in CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain
              Routing) format in the <b>Network Address</b> field, for example: 192.168.0.0/24.</li>
            <li>Select IPv4 or IPv6, as appropriate, in the IP Version field.</li>
            <li>Enter a gateway IP address from the subnet or leave the <b>Gateway IP</b> field
              blank to use the default value for the gateway IP address; for example, 192.168.0.1
              for 192.168.0.0/24.</li>
            <li>Leave <b>Disable Gateway</b> clear to enable the default gateway for this network,
              or select <b>Disable Gateway</b> to create the network with no default gateway.</li>
            <li>Determine if the network is to be available in all projects in the domain or only
              the selected project: <ul>
                <li>Select <b>Shared</b> to make the network available in all projects.</li>
                <li>Leave the <b>Shared</b> option clear to limit the network to the selected
                  project.  </li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Determine if the network is to be available externally or only internally: <ul>
                <li>Select <b>External Network</b> to make the network an externally
                  accessible.</li>
                <li>Leave the <b>External Network</b> option clear to make the network internal,
                  only accessible from the external network through a network router.  </li>
              </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Next</b>.</li>
<li>On the <b>Subnet Details</b> tab:<ul>
            <li>Clear the <b>Enable DHCP</b> option, as needed, to not use the network as a DCHP.
              DHCP is enabled by default. If enabled, the subnet will serve as your DHCP server.
              Instances associated with the subnet will be assigned an IP address from this pool.
              .</li>
            <li>Optionally, enter the starting and ending IP addresses you want for your DHCP
              allocation pool in the <b>Allocation Pools</b> field, in the format
              IP<i>ADDR,IP</i>ADDR. For example: 192.168.1.10,192.168.1.120. By deafult, the server
              has an application pool starting with 10.0.0.0/24.</li>
            <li>Optionally, enter the IP Address of your subnet in the <b>DNS Name Servers</b>
              field. If blank, your subnet will default to using HP's internal DNS which uses
              DNSMASQ.</li>
            <li>Optionally, enter the Destination CIDR and Next Hop for your subnet in the Host
              Routes field to create host routes.</li>
          </ul></li>
<li>Click <b>Create</b>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="deletenet"> <title>Delete a network</title>
<ol>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160">Launch the HP
            Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</li>
        <li><xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-region-selector.dita#jow1432757989702">Select the
            appropriate region and project</xref>.</li>
        <li>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>Network</b> panel. <p>The network(s) for
            the selected project appear.</p></li>
<li>For the network to delete, click <b>Edit Network</b> then <b>Delete Network</b>.</li>
<li>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Delete Network</b>.</li>
</ol>
<p>The network is deleted and any instances attached to the networks are disconnected.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
