---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/reference
product: devplatform
title: "HP Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) Command-Line Client Reference"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer
role2: Security Engineer
role3: ISV Developer 
role4: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---

<!--UNDER REVISION-->
# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: HP Helion ALS Cluster Management Tool Reference 

The ALS command-line interface client (cf-mgmt.exe) provides an option for executing commands that construct, manage, update, or delete ALS clusters. Use the command line when the Horizon management console is unavailable or when direct access is preferred. 

- [Global Options](#global)
- [Cluster Commands](#commands)
	- [Create a Cluster](#create)
	- [Delete a Cluster](#delete)
	- [Add DEA Nodes to Existing Clusters](#addnode)

##Configuration Values
There are three ways to pass configuration values into ALS:

- Direct entry into the command-line interface
- Defined in an environment variable
- Recorded in a configuration file
 
ALS maintains separate configuration files.

One configuration file contains the values for the global variables. The global configuration file is located in the home directory and is named *cf-mgmtconfig.yml*. </br>Global level **commands** create, delete, and add clusters. </br>
 Global level **configurations** manage tenants, users, versions, and other system information. 

The other configuration files, specified by the **--load** option, includes the values that should be passed to arguments for a specific command. Values must be included in the appropriate file for correct scoping; putting a command-specific value in the global file, for example, will not function as desired.

##Global Options {#global}
These variables affect the entire cluster; they are **global** in scope. These environment variables are configured to work with the OpenStack Python tools to enable faster integration.
<pre>cf-mgmt <b>[global options]</b> command [command options] [arguments...] </pre>

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;">
<th width="150">Option</th><th>Description</th><th>Environment Variable</th>
<tr><td>--env 'C:\Users\&#60;username&#62;\.cf-mgmtconfig.yml' <td>Default location for configuration file for global options. Enter a new file path to change the location of the configuration file.</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
<tr><td>--debug<td>Enables additional debug information.</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
<tr><td>--dry-run<td>Simulate the command with provided flags.</td><td>$CF-MGMT_DEBUG</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-username</td><td>OpenStack user name</td><td>$OS_USERNAME</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-password</td><td>OpenStack password</td><td>$OS_PASSWORD</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-auth-url</td><td>OpenStack authentication URL</td><td>$OS_AUTH_URL</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-tenant-id</td><td>OpenStack tenant ID</td><td>$OS_TENANT_ID</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-tenant-name</td><td>OpenStack tenant name</td><td>$OS_TENANT_NAME</td></tr>
<tr><td>--os-region-name</td><td>OpenStack region</td><td>$OS_REGION_NAME</td></tr>
<tr><td>--help, -h</td><td>Displays help.</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
<tr><td>--version, -v</td><td>Displays the version of the client.</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
</table>

##Cluster Commands {#commands}
These commands are available from the command line interface.

###Use Syntax
<pre>cf-mgmt [global options] <b>command</b> [command options] [arguments...] </pre>

###Command Options
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;"><th>Command</th><th>Description</th></tr>
<tr><td>create-cluster,	cc<td>Creates a cluster</td></tr>
<tr><td>delete-cluster, dc<td>Deletes a cluster</td></tr>
<tr><td>add-role dea, ar<td>Adds DEA nodes to an existing cluster</td></tr>
<tr><td>help, h</td><td>Displays a list of available commands or help for a command.</td></tr>
</table>

##Create a Cluster {#create}
Options that can be passed to the command that creates a cluster 
(*create-cluster*).

<pre>cf-mgmt [global options] <b>create-cluster</b> [command options] [arguments...] </pre>

For help with this command within the command-line interface, enter

<pre>cf-mgmt help create-cluster</pre>

<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;"><th style="width:250px;">Command (with example input)</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--load </td><td>Load flags from the specified file</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--save</td><td>Save flags to the specified file</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--admin-email</td><td>Email address for the Cloud Foundry admin user</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--admin-password</td><td>Password for the Cloud Foundry admin user</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--admin-org 'org1'</td><td>Organization the Cloud Foundry admin user is part of</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--cluster-title 'stack1'</td><td>Title of the Cloud Foundry cluster</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--cluster-prefix 'als'</td><td>Prefix to affix to cluster instance names.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--dea-count '1'</td><td>Number of DEAs nodes in the cluster.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--services 'mysql,rabbitmq' </td><td>The list of services enabled for the cluster</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--services-on-core 'false'</td><td>Should services be enabled on core nodes? True/False</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--az</td><td>Availability zone for the cluster</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--core-flavor</td><td>Flavor of core nodes in the cluster</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--dea-flavor</td><td>Flavor for DEA nodes</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--service-flavor</td><td>Flavor for service nodes in the cluster</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--keypair-name</td><td>The name of the key pair on instances</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--seed-node-image-id</td><td>ID of the seed node image.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--seed-node-image-name</td><td>Name of the seed node image.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--database-instance-id</td><td>Database instance id</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--database-flavor</td><td>Flavor of database</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--database-volume-size </td><td>Database volume size</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--max-cluster-wait-duration '15m'</td><td>Maximum time to wait for the cluster creation to occur; defaults to 15 minutes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--max-corenode-wait-duration '3m'</td><td>Maximum time to wait for the core node to come up on cluster creation; defaults to 3 minutes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--subnet-id</td><td>ID of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster, and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--subnet-name</td><td>Name of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--upstream-proxy </td><td>Upstream proxy</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--http-proxy</td><td>HTTP proxy</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--https-proxy</td><td>HTTPS proxy</td>
</tr>
<td>--constructor-image-name </td><td>Name of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--constructor-image-id </td><td>ID of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-flavor</td><td>Flavor for the constructor server</td>
</tr>
</table>

##Delete a Cluster {#delete}
Options that can be passed to the command that deletes a cluster (*delete-cluster*).
###Use Syntax
<pre>cf-mgmt [global options] <b>delete-cluster</b> [command options] [arguments...] </pre>

For help with this command within the command-line interface, enter

<pre>cf-mgmt help delete-cluster</pre>

###Options
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;"><th style="width:250px;">Command (with example input)</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--load</td><td>Load flags from the specified file</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--save </td><td>Save flags to the specified file</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--cluster-prefix 'als'</td><td>Prefix to affix to cluster instance names.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--keypair-name</td><td>The name of the key pair on instances</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-image-name</td><td>Name of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-image-id</td><td>ID of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-flavor</td><td>Flavor of the constructor server</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--max-cluster-wait-duration '4m'</td><td>Maximum time to wait for cluster deletion to occur; defaults to 4 minutes.</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>--subnet-name</td><td>Name of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea.</td></tr>
<tr><td>--subnet-id</td><td>ID of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster, and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea.</td></tr>
</table>
 
##Add DEA Nodes to an Existing Cluster {#addnode}
Options that can be passed when adding nodes to an existing cluster (*add-role dea*).

###Use Syntax

<pre>cf-mgmt [global options] <b>add-role dea</b> [command options] [arguments...]</pre>

For help with this command within the command-line interface, enter

<pre>cf-mgmt help add-role dea</pre>

###Options
<table style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top; width:650px;">
<tr style="background-color: #C8C8C8;"><th style="width:250px;">Command (with example input)</th><th>Description</th></tr>
<tr>
<td>--load</td><td>Load flags from the specified file</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--save</td><td>Save flag values to the specified file</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--cluster-prefix 'als'</td><td>Prefix to affix to cluster instance names.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--dea-count '1'</td><td>Number of DEAs nodes in the cluster</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--seed-node-image-name</td><td>The seed node image name</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--dea-flavor</td><td>Flavor for DEA nodes</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--keypair-name</td><td>The name of the key pair on instances</td>
</tr>
<td>--constructor-image-name</td><td>Name of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-image-id</td><td>ID of the image of the constructor server</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>--max-cluster-wait-duration '6m'</td><td>Maximum time to wait for DEA addition to occur; defaults to 6 minutes.</td>
</tr><tr>
<td>--constructor-flavor '101'</td><td>Flavor reference to use when creating a constructor server</td>
</tr>
<tr><td>--subnet-id</td><td>ID of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster, and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea</td></tr>
<tr><td>--subnet-name</td><td>Name of the subnet for the Constructor VM, the cluster created by create-cluster and the DEA nodes added by add-role dea.</td></tr>
</table>
