<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_a4c_11b_dt">
  <title><i>cf-mgmt</i> Tool Example 2: Create a Cluster</title>
  <body>      <simpletable><strow><stentry><xref href="cfmgmt_createcluster_microcloud.dita">&lt;- microcloud example</xref> </stentry><stentry>
        <xref href="cfmgmt_createcluster_large.dita">grow a cluster example -&gt;</xref></stentry></strow></simpletable>
   
            <p>The following is an example on how to create a cluster with a Core node, two DEAs and
      a MySQL service.</p>
    <p>
      <note type="tip"> For convenience, copy the code blocks and paste them into a text editor. You
        can edit them there and then copy and paste back into the <varname>cf-mgmt</varname> tool as
        necessary. You may also want to refer to the full <i>cf-mgmt </i>tool <xref
          href="1.2ALS_Client_Reference.dita">command reference documentation</xref>. </note>
    </p>
 <section><title>Prerequisites</title>
<ul><li>The Helion Development Platform must be installed.</li>
  <li>The <i>cf-mgmt</i> tool must be <xref
            href="1.2ALS_Client_Downloads.dita#topic843/hp-helion-als-cluster-management-tool-cf-mgmt"
            >downloaded</xref> and installed.</li>
</ul></section>

     <section>  <ol><li>Create a text file named <i>bootstrap.yml </i> with the following content and save it in the
          same folder where the <i>cf-mgmt </i>tool is
            installed.<codeblock>constructor-image-name: HP Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Installer 1.2.0.282 
constructor-flavor: standard.xsmall 
seed-node-image-name: HP Helion Development Platform - Application Lifecycle Service Seed Node 1.2.0.282 
core-flavor: standard.medium 
cluster-title: &lt;My Cluster Title&gt; 
cluster-prefix: &lt;My Cluster Prefix&gt;
dea-count: 2 
dea-flavor: standard.medium 
services: mysql 
services-on-core: false 
service-flavor: standard.medium 
az: &lt;My Availability Zones&gt;</codeblock><note>Please
            ensure the values for image names, image sizes and availability zones ("az") are valid
            for your current configuration.</note></li>
        <li>Run the following set of commands.
          <codeblock> cf-mgmt.exe ^
        --os-auth-url <xref href="https://region-a.geo-1.identity.hpcloudsvc.com:35357/v2.0/" format="html" scope="external">https://region-a.geo-1.identity.hpcloudsvc.com:35357/v2.0/</xref> ^
        --os-username &lt;username&gt; ^
        --os-password &lt;password&gt; ^
        --os-tenant-id &lt;id&gt; ^
        --os-tenant-name "&lt;tenant-name&gt;" ^
        --os-region-name "&lt;region-name&gt;" ^
 create-cluster ^
        --keypair-name &lt;keypair name&gt; ^
        --admin-email &lt;admin email&gt; ^
        --admin-password &lt;admin password&gt; ^
        --max-cluster-wait-duration -1 ^
        --max-corenode-wait-duration -1 ^
        --load bootstrap.yml</codeblock></li></ol><note>A value of -1 indicates an infinite duration.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
