<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2685">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<!-- From HP/WR OpenStack Summit press release  http://www.windriver.com/news/press/pr.html?ID=13261-->
<p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is a carrier-grade distribution of OpenStack, the leading open
      source cloud computing platform.</p>
<p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade provides communications service providers (CSPs) with an open
      source based cloud platform that meets their demanding reliability requirements.</p>
<section id="installing-hp-openstack-carrier-grade"> <title>Installing HPE OpenStack Carrier Grade</title>
<p>Use the following links to begin installing HPE OpenStack Carrier Grade:</p>
<ul>
<li>
  <p><xref href="Installation/carrier-grade-install-overview.dita#topic1925"/>
          </p>

<p>Start with this document for complete instructions on how to install your HP Helion OpenStack
            cloud, including system requirements, prerequisites, and deployment models</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="learnabout"> <title>Learning about HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade</title>
<p>Use the following links to review some high-level overview information about HP Helion OpenStack
        Carrier Grade:</p>
<ul>
<li>
          <xref href="Overview/carrier-grade-overview.dita#topic4010" type="section" />
        </li>
        <li><xref href="CGHRelNotes/carrier-grade-release-notes.dita#topic6108"/></li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="getstart"> <title>Getting started with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade</title>
<p>Use the following links and tools to begin working with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade:</p>
<ul>
        <li>
          <p><xref
              href="http://gaf2871b9d2d13cf45c1306b35bf01764.cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/CGH-2-KVM-Admin.pdf"
              format="pdf" scope="external">Administrator Guide</xref></p>
          <p>The <xref href="AdminGuideNew/carrier-grade-admin-guide.dita#topic15959">KVM-Region
              Administrator Guide</xref> is addressed to HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
            administrators responsible for the following areas:</p>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>Creating and maintaining resources used by end users (tenants), such as virtual
                machines, storage pools, network objects, and access credentials.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Operating and maintaining components of the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
                product, such as clusters, nodes, system software, licensing files, and backup and
                restore facilities</p>
            </li>
          </ul>
          <p>The Administer Guide also contains specific tasks, such as logging, backup/restore,
            switch configuration, and configuring a multiple data center environment. </p>
        </li>
        <li><xref href="OperationsGuide/CGH-2-User-Overview.dita#jow1404333560080">Operations
            Guide</xref><p>The Operations Guide introduces the Horizon interface with specific
            information on how to use Horizon to operate HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade on a
            day-to-day basis. </p></li>
        <li><xref href="Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita#topic4220">Services
            Overview</xref>
          <p>These topics describe the supported OpenStack Service and contain links to the
            respective OpenStack CLI and API documentation.</p></li>
        <li>
          <xref href="API/carrier-grade-api.dita#topic15959">API and SDK Reference</xref>
          <p>The API and SDK reference provides links to supported API and custom OpenStack API
            extensions. The page also links to the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software
            Development Kit (SDK) documentation.</p></li>
      </ul>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
