<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1495">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Non-KVM Region Overview</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade: HP Helion OpenStack Overview</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>For installation and maintenance, HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade consists of three logical
      or conceptual <i>regions</i>: Non-KVM, KVM, and the optional baremetal. </p>
    <p>A server in the Non-KVM region hosts the lifecycle manager, which contains the installation
      scripts and configuration files to deploy and maintain HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade; and
      HP Helion OpenStack, a commercial-grade distribution of OpenStack.</p>
    <p><b>Note:</b> These regions do not function as OpenStack regions. </p>
    <section><title>Lifecycle Manager</title>All four deployment models install the lifecycle
      manager into the non-KVM
        region.<!-- From: https://wiki.hpcloud.net/display/core/Helion+Lifecycle+Management+Root--><p>The
        Non-KVM environment includes a full installation of a lifecycle manager, an application that
        is used to deploy HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade and can be used for ongoing operations
        and maintenance of the system.</p><ul id="ul_bhj_clv_ls">
        <li>
          <p>
            <b>Physical Node Preparation.</b> The lifecycle manager can configure nodes prior to
            installation of a base operating system, including node discovery/inventory, BIOS
            configuration, (specifically setting PXE boot on primary interface), GRUB settings, RAID
            setup for local disks, iLO/IPMI set up and firmware upgrades.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>
            <b>OS Install.</b> The lifecycle manager takes a PXE bootable node and installs a base
            operating system.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>
            <b>Cloud Configuration.</b> The lifecycle manager can provide detailed information about
            the cloud topology, such as the structure of control plane, assignment of services to
            nodes, and service configuration. You can also specify environment-specific
            configurations.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>
            <b>OS Configuration.</b> The lifecycle manager can automatically execute operating
            system configuration values, such as NIC assignments, NTP settings, DNS settings, NIC
            bonding, sysctl settings, VLAN creation and so forth. The lifecycle manager uses the
            Ansible data model output and server playbooks to automatically apply the per-node
            configurations.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>
            <b>Helion Operation &amp; Maintenance.</b> The lifecycle manager is responsible for the
            deploy, upgrade and maintenance lifecycle of the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
            system.</p>
        </li>
      </ul></section>
    <section>
      <title>HP Helion OpenStack</title>
      <p>All four deployment models install HP Helion OpenStack into the non-KVM region.</p>
      <p>HPE Helion OpenStack2.0 is the latest OpenStack-based infrastructure-as-a-service cloud
        platform release from HP. It is based on the OpenStack Kilo release and implements core
        services and features of Kilo while providing new installation and management features.</p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack offers many services based on the different OpenStack projects to
        provide the functionality you need. Visit the <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita">HP Helion
          OpenStack Services Overview page</xref> for a complete list of services.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)</title>
      <p>The Tahoe, Memphis, and Sacramento deployment models include HP DCN.</p>
      <p>The optional HP DCN is a software-Defined Networking (SDN) solution that enhances data
        center (DC) network virtualization by automatically establishing connectivity between
        compute resources upon their creation. </p>
      <p>Refer to the HP DCN documentation for more information, system requirements and
        installation instructions.</p>
      <p>In general, the main components in the HP DCN solution are: Virtualized Services Directory
        (VSD) and Virtualized Services Directory Architect (VSD Architect), Virtualized Services
        Controller (VSC) and Virtual Routing and Switching
          (VRS).<!-- From HP Distributed Cloud Networking User Guide--><ul id="ul_bs5_xk2_25">
          <li><b>Virtualized Services Directory (VSD).</b> The HP VSD is a programmable policy and
            analytics engine. The VSD runs as a number of processes in a virtual machine (VM)
            environment.</li>
          <li><b>Virtualized Services Directory Architect (VSD Architect).</b> The VSD Architect is
            a GUI for management tasks on the VSD.</li>
          <li><b>Virtualized Services Controller (VSC).</b> The HP VSC is a powerful SDN controller.
            It functions as the robust network control plane for DCs, maintaining a full view of
            per-tenant network and service topologies. The VSC runs in a virtual machine
            environment.</li>
          <li><b>Virtual Routing and Switching (VRS).</b> The HP VRS component is an enhanced Open
            vSwitch (OVS) implementation that constitutes the network forwarding plane.<p>For lower
              bandwidth needs, the software-based Virtual Routing Services Gateway(VRS-G) can be run
              in a dedicated bare-metal server or as a virtual machine, allowing the incorporation
              of bare-metal assets as virtualized extensions of the data center, as well as
              providing an exit gateway for the DVRS’ overlay, floating-IP and shared-services
              traffic.</p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
    <section><title>ESX Integration</title>The Memphis, and Sacramento deployment models include
      VMWare ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/>.<p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade optionally supports VMWare
          ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/> hypervisor using HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (aka DCN). With
        our ESX integration, the cloud can provision and manage an ESX cluster. VMWare Compute Proxy
        is used as a part of ESX integration. The VMware vCenter driver connects to ESX clusters
        through Nova Compute proxy nodes. A Compute node scheduler sees each cluster as compute and
        uses the same for scheduling new instances.</p><p>Refer to the VMWare documentation for more
        information, system requirements and installation instructions.</p><p><b>DCN/ESX
          Integration</b></p><p>This DCN/ESX integration uses the VRSvAPP application to connect the
        VMware vCenter™ networking to the Network Operations controller to manage workload networks.
      </p>The ESX integration uses the OVSvApp application to connect the vCenter networking to the
      Network Operations controller to manage workload networks. HP DCN handles virtual networking
      between HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade and the ESX servers. <p>Together, HP Helion
        OpenStack Carrier Grade, ESX, and DCN combine to provide the best features from OpenStack,
        ESX and DCN, including:</p><ul id="ul_p44_snk_ws">
        <li>Support for inter-region and inter-cloud communication between different data
          centers.</li>
        <li>OpenStack features with rich services such as Keystone, Glance, Nova, Neutron, Cinder,
          Horizon</li>
        <li>ESX provides foundation for building and managing a virtualized IT infrastructure</li>
        <li>ESX provides reliability and performance</li>
        <li>ESX hypervisors abstract processor, memory and storage</li>
        <li>DCN provides programmable business logic and a powerful policy engine</li>
        <li>DCN provides an open and highly responsive solution that scales and spans across
          multi-tenant DCs</li>
        <li>ESX region uses a VMDK driver to offer multi-backend storage support from Cinder </li>
      </ul></section>
  </body>
</topic>
