<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4010">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0 Beta: Overview</title>
<prolog>
  <metadata>
    <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
    <othermeta name="role" content="Michael B"/>
    <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack Carreir Grade 1.1"/>
  </metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <section>
      <!-- From QuickSpec Asawa, Manjari <manjari.asawa@hp.com> -->
      <p><b>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade </b> is a carrier grade OpenStack solution plus
        compute and network functions virtualization (NFV) offering that enables CSPs to deploy
        applications on open source software platforms. HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is based
        on OpenStack Kilo.</p>
      <p>Some key examples include the host operating system (for example, Linux), server
        virtualization (KVM), network virtualization (vSwitch and SDN controllers), an installer and
        cloud lifecycle management framework, fault and performance management, and
        high-availability framework for the OpenStack control plane and the NFVI layer.</p>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is based on HP Helion Openstack 1.1 but
        with significantly enhanced and optimized functionality, availability, scale and performance
        to meet the needs of NFV cloud deployments.</p>
      <p>Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade includes following key components:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>OpenStack—core services including Horizon, Nova, Neutron, Cinder, Glance, Swift,
          Keystone, Ceilometer, and Heat. Other services will be added as needed in the future.</li>
        <li>Compute node software package that includes: <ul>
            <li>Carrier-grade Linux (host operating system [OS] running on the compute nodes)</li>
            <li>Carrier-grade KVM (for virtualization of the compute node)</li>
            <li>Carrier-grade accelerated virtual switch (AVS), data plane development kit
              (DPDK)-enabled high-performance virtual switch</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Management and middleware—composed of high-availability (HA) management; operations,
          administration, and maintenance (OAM); software image management; and fault and
          performance management</li>
        <li>Guest software development kit (SDK) for inclusion in the guest OS of the VNF for
          performance acceleration and improving the HA framework above and beyond standard
          VIMs</li>
        <li>HP Helion Lifecycle Manager (HLM)—cloud installer and lifecycle manager</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="focus-areas-for-hp-helion-openstack-carrier-grade">
      <title>Standard Features</title>
      <!-- From QuickSpec Asawa, Manjari <manjari.asawa@hp.com> -->
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry> Feature </entry>
              <entry> Description </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Availability and reliability </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>Advanced self-healing</li>
                  <li>No single point of failure</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Platform for high performance VNFs </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>Near-line rate networking throughout for VNFs like vEPC, vBRAS, vIMS, vFW,
                    vRouter etc.</li>
                  <li>Bare metal compute performance</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry> Manageability </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>In-service upgrade capabilities</li>
                  <li>Enhanced security</li>
                  <li>Inventory management</li>
                  <li>Advanced resource scheduling and orchestration capabilities</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>High Availability/ Disaster Recovery </entry>
              <entry>
                <ul>
                  <li>NIC Bonding at the server level </li>
                  <li>HA for KVM instance</li>
                  <li>Compute Node failure detection and Auto-evacuation in kvm region</li>
                  <li>Live Migration in kvm region</li>
                </ul>
              </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
 
    <section>
      <title>Service Overview</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is comprised of a number of services, including several
        OpenStack and HP Helion OpenStack services.</p>
      <p>For more information, see <xref href="carrier-grade.services-overview.dita">Services
          Overview</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Virtual
        Switching</title><!--<p>Taken from http://blogs.windriver.com/wind_river_blog/2014/10/wanted-virtual-switching-without-compromise.html. Must rewrite</p>--><p>Virtual
        switching is a key function within data centers based on Software Defined Networking (SDN)
        as well as in telecom infrastructure that leverages Network Functions Virtualization (NFV).
        </p><p>In the NFV scenario, for example, the virtual switch (vSwitch) is responsible for
        switching network traffic between the core network and the virtualized applications or
        Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) that are running in Virtual Machines (VMs). </p><b>HP DCN
        Virtual Routing Switch (VRS)</b>. HP DCN VRS is..<p><b> Accelerated vSwitch (AVS)</b>. AVS
        is integrated into the servers in the KVM region. AVS is an optimization of Open vSwitch
        (OVS) technology for NFV environments. Open vSwitch is a multilayer software switch licensed
        under the open source Apache 2 license.</p></section>
    
  <section>
      <title>Ethernet Interface Types </title>
      <p>You can connect a VM directly to a physical interface using PCI passthrough or SR-IOV. You
        can choose either method by selecting <codeph>pci-sriov</codeph> or
          <codeph>pci-passthrough</codeph> as the network type when creating interfaces.
        <!--From WR Admin Guide.--></p>
      <p>When compared with a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface, a SR-IOV Ethernet interface: <ul
          id="ul_u1d_ffp_rt">
          <li>Provides benefits similar to those of a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface, including
            lower latency packet processing. </li>
          <li>Scales up more easily in a virtualized environment by providing multiple VFs that can
            be attached to multiple virtual machine interfaces.</li>
          <li>Shares the same limitations, including the lack of support for LAG, QoS, ACL, and live
            migration.</li>
          <li>Has the same requirements regarding the VLAN configuration of the access switches. </li>
          <li>Provides a similar configuration workflow.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Refer to the KVM Region Administrator Guide for more information on PCI Pass-through and
        SR-IOV.</p>
      <p><b>PCI Passthrough</b>. A passthrough Ethernet interface is a physical PCI Ethernet NIC on
        a compute node to which a virtual machine is granted direct access. This minimizes packet
        processing delays but at the same time demands special operational considerations. For all
        purposes, a PCI passthrough interface behaves as if it were physically attached to the
        virtual machine.</p>
      <p>Instructions for configuring SR-IOV are available after for installation, see <xref
          href="../Installation/CGH-2-install-pci-pass.dita#topic10581">Configuring
          PCI-Passthrough</xref></p>
      <p><b>SR-IOV</b>. A Single-Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) Ethernet interface is a physical
        PCI Ethernet NIC that implements hardware-based virtualization mechanisms to expose multiple
        virtual network interfaces that can be used by one or more virtual machines
        simultaneously.</p>
      <p>When compared with a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface, a SR-IOV Ethernet interface:
          <!--From WR admin--><ul id="ul_b3l_y2r_5t">
          <li>Provides benefits similar to those of a PCI Passthtrough Ethernet interface, including
            lower latency packet processing.</li>
          <li>Scales up more easily in a virtualized environment by providing multiple VFs that can
            be attached to multiple virtual machine interfaces.</li>
          <li>Shares the same limitations, including the lack of support for LAG, QoS, ACL, and live
            migration.</li>
          <li>Has the same requirements regarding the VLAN configuration of the access
            switches.</li>
          <li>Provides a similar configuration workflow when used on HP Helion OpenStack Carrier
            Grade.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Instructions for configuring SR-IOV are available after for installation, see <xref
          href="../Installation/CGH-2-install-sr-iov.dita#topic10581">Configuring SR-IOV</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Backup and Restore</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade includes a backup and restore application called Attis
        which you can use to backup and restore essential system files and components of the non-KVM
        cloud. Attis is automatically installed on each of the controller nodes in the non-KVM
        region. For more information, see <xref
          href="../AdminGuide/Backup/CGH-2-backup-restore.dita#topic10581">Backup and Restore
          Configuration Files and MySQL Clusters</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Multiple NIC Support</title>
      <p>When launching a VM instance, you can specify multiple network interfaces.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Centralized Logging</title>
      <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Centralized Logging feature collects logs on a
        central system, rather than leaving the logs scattered across the network. The administrator
        can use a single Kibana interface to view log information in charts, graphs, tables,
        histograms, and other forms. For more information, see <xref
          href="../AdminGuide/Logging/CHG-2-logging-overview.dita#topic5937">Centralized
          Logging</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Installation Options</title>HP Helion OpenStack Carreir Grade has two baremetal
      installation options depending on your system configuration. It allows you to manage the KVM
      and VMware ESX<tm tmtype="reg"/> hypervisors and provision virtual machines.<p>You can find
        more information on the hypervisor options in the <xref
          href="../Installation/carrier-grade-technical-overview.dita#topic3485">Technical
          Overview</xref>.</p>
      <b>KVM Topology</b>
      <p>If you install the KVM deployment, you can integrate either HP Storevirtual (VSA) or HP
        StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the KVM region.</p><ul id="ul_il4_qfp_rt">
        <li>With HP StoreVirtual VSA storage <p>HP StoreVirtual VSA software is a Virtual Storage
            Appliance that provides the complete array functionality on top of a Linux KVM
            environment without external hardware. VSA eliminates the need for external shared
            storage required to implement Block Storage features.</p></li>
        <li>With HP StoreServ (3PAR) storage <p>HP 3PAR StoreServ is a storage array that supports
            Fibre Channel (FC) as well as iSCSI protocol.</p></li>
      </ul><p>You must install 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack installation and
        are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. </p>
      <b>KVM with DCN Topology</b>
      <p>The KVM topology can be optimized using HP DCN Virtual Routing Switch. </p><p>Distributed
        Cloud Networking (DCN) is a Software-Defined Networking (SDN) solution that provides data
        center (DC) network virtualization and automatically establishes connectivity between
        compute resources upon their creation.</p><b>KVM + ESX Topology</b>The ESXi/DCN integration
      enables data-center-to-data-center communications through DCN, which connects to the KVM
      region through a gateway (VRS-G). <p>HP Helion OpenStack supports VMWare ESX hypervisor. With
        our ESX integration, you can provision and manage an overcloud ESX cluster. VMWare vCenter
        Compute driver is used as a part of ESX integration. The VMware vCenter driver connects to
        ESX clusters in a vCenter through Compute proxy nodes.</p><p>Virtual networking between HP
        Helion Carrier Grade and the ESX servers is handled by HP Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN)
        is a software-defined networking (SDN) solution that enhances data center (DC) network
        virtualization by automatically establishing connectivity between compute resources upon
        their creation. </p><p>The ESX integration uses the OVSvApp application to connect the
        vCenter networking to the Network Operations controller to manage workload networks.
        </p><p>You can also integrate HP Storevirtual (VSA) or HP StoreServ (3PAR) storage in the
        KVM region. </p><p>You must install ESX, 3PAR or VSA before starting the HP Helion OpenStack
        installation and are independent of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. </p><p><b>Ironic
          Baremetal Region</b></p><p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade leverages the OpenStack
        Ironic service, which aims to provision bare metal machines instead of virtual machines. For
        more information, see <xref
          href="../ServicesOverviews/carrier-grade-services-ironic-overview.dita#topic1235">Ironic
          Service Overview</xref>.</p><p><b>Unbonded or Bonded NIC configuration</b></p><p>The HP
        Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade installation allows for network interface card bonding
        (bonded NIC). </p></section>
  
     
 <section id="distributed-cloud-networking-dcn">
<p>HP Helion OpenStack offers many services based on the different OpenStack projects to provide the
        functionality you need. Visit the <xref
          href="../../CarrierGrade/Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita">HP Helion
          OpenStack Services Overview page</xref> for a complete list of services.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic4010"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
    <!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
  </body>
</topic>
