<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5271">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Sample Applications</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>The Sample Applications are a collection of ready-to-run applications which can be
deployed with a couple of clicks. This interface uses the same API as the CLI client to pull the source code from a Git repository rather than push an archive from the user's local
filesystem.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5271/creating-an-app-store">Creating Sample Applications</xref>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5271/app-store-definition">Sample Applications Definition File</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5271/hosting-the-store-definition-files">Hosting Definition Files</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5271/adding-the-app-store-to-helion">Adding the Sample Applications to the Application Lifecycle Service</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Users have access to the main Sample Applications interface (see the <xref href="../../user/helion_user_index.dita" >Application Lifecycle Service User Guide</xref>, but do not have access to add new applications or add/modify the definition file.</p>
<section id="creating-an-app-store"> <title>Creating Sample Applications</title>
<p>The Sample Applications interface exposes multiple "stores" which specify the
available applications. These stores are sourced from definition files
specified in the main <xref href="console_settings.dita">Console Settings</xref> page of
  the Management Console or set using <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config" type="section"   >kato
config</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="app-store-definition"> <title>Sample Applications Definition File</title>
<p>
  <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-YAML" type="section"   >YAML</xref> files describe the settings for each set of apps, including the container and a link to the source  repository for
each app. For example:</p>
<codeblock>store:
  title: Third Party Apps for Application Lifecycle Service Development Platform
  contact: Application Lifecycle Service Development Platform Support 
  icon: http://static.als.hpcloud.com/hp.ico

apps:
- name: Bugzilla
  id: bugzilla
  desc: A bug tracking system for individuals or groups of developers
  framework: perl
  runtime: perl514
  services: mysql
  license: MPL
  commit: master
  src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/bugzilla.git
  info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/bugzilla.git#readme
  icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/bugzilla.png
  mem: 256

- name: Django CMS
  id: django-cms
  desc: A content management system platform for publishing content on the internet.
  framework: python
  runtime: python27
  services: postgresql
  license: BSD
  commit: helion
  src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/django-cms.git
  info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/django-cms.git#readme
  icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/django-cms.png
  mem: 128

- name: Node Chat
  id: node-chat
  desc: A simple chat application in Node.js with no other dependencies. Originally written by Ryan Dahl, the creator of Node.js.
  framework: node
  runtime: node
  commit: master
  icon: https://get.helion.com/store/icon/chat.png
  mem: 64
  license: MIT
  src: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/node-chat.git
  info: https://github.com/Helion-Apps/node-chat.git#readme</codeblock>
<p>The YAML string requires two top-level keys: <b>store</b>
and <b>apps</b>.</p>
</section>
<section id="store"> <title>store</title>
<p>Contains entries that define the container for each set of Sample Applications.</p>
<p>
<b>title</b>:Text used as a display name for the Sample Applications in the Management Console.</p>
<p>
<b>contact</b>: The name and email address of the party responsible for maintaining these sample applications.</p>
<p>
<b>icon</b>: An image used for the Sample Applications icon. Specified as a full URL.</p>
</section>
<section id="apps"> <title>apps</title>
<p>This is an array of items (see YAML format above), one for each app in the container. Each app is defined by the following fields:</p>
<p>
<b>name</b>:   The name of the app as displayed in the Sample Applications list.</p>
<p>
<b>desc</b>:   A short description of the app, displayed below the name.</p>
<p>
<b>id</b>: A short, lowercase, unique string associated with the app. Apps are sorted alphabetically in the list based on this field.</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>repo</b>
</dt>
<dd>URL of the Git repository where the app code resides.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>commit</b>
</dt>
<dd>Branch name, tag name, or exact commit hash to use. If unspecified, the HEAD commit of <i>master</i> branch is used.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>framework</b>
</dt>
  <dd>The framework the app uses, if the app is deployed using the <xref href="../../user/deploy/buildpack.dita#topic3370/built-in-buildpacks" type="section"   >Legacy Buildpack</xref>(e.g. perl, python, node, rails3).</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>icon</b>
</dt>
<dd>An image used for the app icon specified either as a full URL, a file relative to the <b>store</b> key <b>icon-url</b>
URL, <b>default</b>, or other variable value.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>info</b>
</dt>
<dd>A URL pointing to documentation for the app.</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>license</b>
</dt>
<dd>Optional string indicating the software license of the app (e.g.
 <codeph>MIT</codeph>, <codeph>MPL</codeph>,
 <codeph>BSD</codeph>).</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>mem</b>
</dt>
<dd>Memory requirements of the app (integer, in MB).</dd>
</dlentry>


<dlentry>
<dt>
<b>runtime</b>
</dt>
  <dd>The runtime, if the app is deployed using the <xref href="../../user/deploy/buildpack.dita#topic3370/built-in-buildpacks" type="section"   >Legacy Buildpack</xref> (e.g. java, python32, ruby19, php, perl518).
<b>services</b>
</dd>
<dd>Data services required by the app.</dd>
</dlentry>



</dl>
      <note> The store definition settings do <b>not</b> override settings in the application's
          <i>manifest.yml</i> file.</note>
</section>
<section id="hosting-the-store-definition-files"> <title>Hosting the Definition Files</title>
<p>The YAML files defining the stores can be served via HTTP or HTTPS by
any web server at a URL accessible from the Cloud Controller.</p>
</section>
<section id="adding-the-app-store-to-helion"> <title>Adding the Sample Applications to Application Lifecycle Service</title>
<ol>
<li>Log into the <xref href="console_index.dita">Management
Console</xref>,</li>
<li>Select <b>Settings &gt; Cloud Controller</b> from the menu.</li>
<li>In the <b>Sample Applications URLs</b> section, enter a name and content URL for
your store definition YAML file then click <b>Add Sample Applications URL</b>.</li>
</ol>
<p>To confirm the Sample Applications are loading correctly, select <b>Sample Applications</b> in the menu and view the list of applications displayed. A <b>CC Catalog Manager</b> error appears in the Event Log if a Sample Applications URL fails to load.</p>
<p>Sample Applications URLs can also be viewed, added, deleted, enabled, and disabled
  with <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config" type="section"   >kato config</xref>. For
example:</p>
<codeblock>kato config get cloud_controller_ng app_store</codeblock>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
