<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic13823">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Management Console (Admin View)</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Net Ops Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="NOC Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
    <p>The Application Lifecycle Service Management Console is a web interface that allows the
      administration and management of the Application Lifecycle Service Server. Many of the
      features described below are only available to Administrator users from the Admin view.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <xref href="console_intro.dita">Management Console Introduction and First Access</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/setup">Management Console Setup and Access</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/welcome">Welcome Page</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/applications">Applications</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/organizations">Organizations</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/support">Support</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/admin">Admin</xref>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/clustermanagement">Cluster Management</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/clustersummary">Summary</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/cluster-nodes">Cluster Nodes</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/patches">Available Patches</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/app-org">Applications &amp; Organizations</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/domains">Domains</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/routes">Routes</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/services">Services</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/managed-services">Managed Services
                  Instances</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/user-services">User-provided Service
                  Instances</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/avail-services">Available Services</xref>
              </li>
              <li><xref type="section" href="#topic13823/quotaPlans">Quota
                  Plans</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/users">Users</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/dashboards">Dashboards</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/memory-summary">Memory Summary</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/dea-usage">DEA Usage</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/zone-usage">Placement Zone Usage</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/avail-zone-usage">Availability Zone
                  Usage</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/router-stats">Router Stats</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/primary-node-status-graphs">Primary Node
                  Status Graphs</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/cloud-events">Cloud Events</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li><xref href="console_settings.dita">Console Settings Menu </xref></li>
    </ul>
    <section id="setup">
      <title>Management Console Setup and Access</title>
      <p>Your hypervisor provides <xref
          href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-tty-console" type="section">tty
          console</xref> access to each of its virtual machines. After startup, an Application
        Lifecycle Service VM displays:</p>
      <codeblock>Application Lifecycle Service Management Console at
https://helion-xxxx.local</codeblock>
      <p>On a <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-micro-cloud">micro
          cloud</xref> VM where the local network supports <xref
          href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-multicast-dns" type="section"
          >multicast DNS</xref>, the hostname will be <codeph>helion-xxxx.local</codeph>. If you
        have configured the <xref
          href="../../admin/server/configuration.dita#topic31232/server-config-hostname"
          type="section">hostname</xref> and <xref
          href="../../admin/server/configuration.dita#topic31232/server-config-dns"
          type="section">DNS</xref> of the Application Lifecycle Service server manually, or are
        connecting to a server administered by someone else, supply the assigned hostname instead
        (ex: <i>api.helion-test.example.com</i>).</p>
      <p>Enter the URL into your web browser and the Management Console will load. The Console is
        supported on the following browsers:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Chrome 30+ (WebKit)</li>
        <li>Firefox 20+</li>
        <li>IE 10+</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Using a browser which fully support WebSockets is recommended.</p>
      <p>
        <note> The SSL certificate for the Application Lifecycle Service Management Console is
          self-signed. You will need to manually accept this certificate in your browser. See the
            <xref
              href="../server/https_and_ssl.dita#topic_gwr_qgd_ws/using-your-own-ssl-certificate"
            >Using your own SSL certificate</xref> for information on using your own
          certificate.</note>
      </p>
      <p>When you first access the Management Console, you will be prompted to create a primary
        administrative user for ALS. Enter an email address as the username, set a secure password,
        and then review and accept the license agreement.</p>
      <note> The password you choose here becomes the login password for the <i>helion</i> user on
        the VM for SSH access. This is critical since all login is done as the <i>helion</i> user,
        not as <i>root</i>.</note>
      <p>Once you've logged in, you can begin to add other users and admins, enable and disable
        services, and generally set up the system to your requirements.</p>
      <p>Basic Application Lifecycle Service administration can be done through the Management
        Console, but some maintenance and configuration tasks may need to be done at the command
        line using the <i>kato</i> command. See the <xref
          href="../../admin/reference/kato-ref.dita">Kato Command Reference</xref> for a full
        list of options.</p>
      <p>The Application Lifecycle Service Management Console will periodically send non-identifying
        pingbacks (Application Lifecycle Service version number and UUID) to HPE servers to help
        improve the web console experience. You can disable this option by setting</p>
      <codeblock>theme_settings['pingback_allowed'] = false;</codeblock>
      <p>in the <i>settings.js</i> file as described in the <xref href="customize.dita#topic5029"
          >Customization</xref> documentation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="welcome">
      <title>Welcome Page</title>
      <p>The top-level page of the Management Console displays quick links to the most used
        resources and views. The blue buttons are for features also available to regular end users.
        See <xref href="../../user/console/console_index.dita#topic8844/welcome">Management
          Console</xref> (User View).</p>
      <p>Available patches for the system, new releases, and the latest news are also displayed on
        this page.</p>
      <p>Green buttons expose Admin-only functionality:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Configure Available Services: Opens the <xref href="#topic13823/cluster-nodes"
            format="dita">Cluster Nodes</xref> view showing which roles are running on which nodes.
          From this view you can add or remove Service roles on the various nodes in the cluster (or
          on 127.0.0.1 for micro clouds).</li>
        <li>Manage Organizations: Opens the <xref href="#topic13823/organizations" format="dita"
            >Organizations</xref> view.</li>
        <li>Manage Users: Opens the <xref href="#topic13823/users" format="dita">Users
          </xref>view.</li>
        <li>View All Deployed Applications: Opens the <xref type="section"
            href="#topic13823/applications">Console Applications</xref> view.</li>
        <li>View Cloud Events: Opens the <xref type="section" href="#topic13823/cloud-events">Cloud
            Events</xref> view.</li>
        <li>View Dashboard: Opens the <xref href="#topic13823/dashboards" format="dita"
            >Dashboard</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="applications">
      <title>Applications</title>
      <p>The Applications section displays a list of all apps on the server. Click anywhere on the
        line for an app to view its details. Admins have the same permissions in the Application
        View as a Developer of the space it was deployed to.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="organizations">
      <title>Organizations</title>
      <p>The top level Organizations page allows Admins to add and delete <xref
          href="#topic13823/organizations" format="dita">Organizations</xref>. Clicking on an
        organization name opens its details. This view is the same as a regular user's <xref
          href="../../user/console/console_index.dita#topic8844/organization-view">Organizations</xref>
        view, but admin users can also edit quotas and add/remove domains, spaces, and users.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="support">
      <title>Support</title>
      <p>The Support menu includes the same options as the regular user's menu.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="admin">
      <title>Admin</title>
      <p>Several views that are only available to administrators are in the Admin menu.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="clustermanagement">
      <title>Cluster Management</title>
      <p>Commands for managing a cluster as a whole.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="clustersummary">
      <title>Summary</title>
      <p>Displays a list of roles and their status in the system. Additionally, the following system
        information is displayed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Number of nodes</b>: The number of nodes in the cluster.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Version</b>: Version (release) number of the system.</li>
        <li>
          <b>MBUS IP</b>: The IP address that hosts the primary node. Cluster nodes (if any) will
          connect via this IP address. In a micro cloud setting, it will be 127.0.0.1.</li>
        <li>
          <b>API Endpoint</b>: The URL for ALS clients to target. Normally also the URL for the
          Management Console.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="cluster-nodes">
      <title>Cluster Nodes</title>
      <p>Displays a list of nodes in the current cluster, and what services are running on each
        node. In a micro cloud configuration, only the current local node (127.0.0.1) is shown.</p>
      <p>To enable or disable services on a node, click the Configure Roles button (cog icon) to see
        the Node Settings, showing a list of all available roles and checkboxes to enable or disable
        each one. Click Save to apply changes.</p>
      <p>See also the <xref
          href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-role-add">kato role</xref>
        and <xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-info">kato
          info</xref> command documentation for the CLI equivalents, and the <xref
          href="../cluster/cluster_index.dita">Cluster Setup</xref> documentation for information on
        adding nodes to the cluster.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="patches">
      <title>Available Patches</title>
      <p>Displays a list of available patches for the current cluster.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="app-org">
      <title>Applications &amp; Organizations</title>
      <p>Links to the <xref href="../../user/console/console_index.dita#topic8844/application-view"
          >Applications</xref> and <xref href="../../user/deploy/orgs-spaces.dita" type="section"
          >Organizations</xref> lists.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="domains">
      <title>Domains</title>
      <p>A filterable list of all domains configured on the system, showing whether they are <xref
          href="../../user/deploy/orgs-spaces.dita#topic2729/domains" type="section">Shared or
          Owned domains</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="routes">
      <title>Routes</title>
      <p>A filterable list of routes in the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="services">
      <title>Services</title>
    </section>
    <section id="managed-services">
      <title>Managed Services Instances</title>
      <p>A filterable list of managed service instances on the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="user-services">
      <title>User-provided Service Instances</title>
      <p>A filterable list of user provided service instances on the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="avail-services">
      <title>Available Services</title>
      <p>A list of available service types (with their version).</p></section><section id="quotaPlans">
      <title>Quota Plans</title>
      <p>Lists the Quota Plans available to apply to Organizations on the system. To edit a
        definition, click the edit button on the right. To create a new definition, use the <xref
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-quotas.dita#topic5727/command-quota-create"
          type="section">
          <i>quota create</i>
        </xref> command.</p>
      <p>The following fields can be modified:</p>
      <ul id="ul_ujf_nm2_5s">
        <li>
          <b>Name</b>: The definition name. Do not change this without also changing the settings of
          any Organization using the definition.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Memory Usage Limit</b>: The total amount of application RAM (in MB) that can be
          allocated to user applications.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Total Services</b>: The total number of service instances that can be allocated.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Total Routes</b>: The total number of routes that can be created.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Droplets per App</b>: The number of droplets stored (per application) for versioning
          and rollback.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Allow Sudo</b>: Allow users in the Organization sudo privileges within their
          application containers.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="users">
      <title>Users</title>
      <p>The Users section displays a list of users and admins.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Click <b>+ Add User</b> to add users.</li>
        <li>Click on the user name or email address to view account details or change the
          password.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="dashboards">
      <title>Dashboards</title>
      <p>A list of available dashboards and their functionality.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="memory-summary">
      <title>Memory Summary</title>
      <p>Helion tracks the amount of memory used by applications across all DEA nodes and shows
        various reports. Available memory is calculated based on the system memory of the DEA nodes
        multiplied by the <xref type="section" href="console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/console-settings-dea">Max Memory
          Percentage</xref>.</p>
      <p>Memory Summary shows how much memory:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>has been assigned to Organizations via <xref type="section"
          href="console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/quotaPlans">Quota Plans</xref>
        </li>
        <li>is available on DEA nodes</li>
        <li>remains unallocated</li>
        <li>has been allocated</li>
        <li>is currently in use</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="dea-usage">
      <title>DEA Usage</title>
      <p>Memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for each DEA node in the pool.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="zone-usage">
      <title>Placement Zone Usage</title>
      <p>Memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for all configured <xref type="section"
        href="console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/dea-zones-placement">Placement Zones</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="avail-zone-usage">
      <title>Availability Zone Usage</title>
      <p>Memory usage statistics and a usage bar graph for all configured <xref
        href="console_settings.dita#topic_od4_byj_rs/dea-zones-available" format="dita">Availability Zones</xref>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="router-stats">
      <title>Router Stats</title>
      <p>Shows realtime results for incoming requests (connections per second), routing errors
        (errors per second), and an overview of the cumulative requests to the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="primary-node-status-graphs">
      <title>Primary Node Status Graphs</title>
      <p>Displays graphs for server statistics: CPU, Load, Memory, Disk Operations, Disk Space,
        Processes, and Swap (primary node or micro cloud only).</p>
    </section>
    <section id="cloud-events">
      <title>Cloud Events</title>
      <p>The Cloud Events section displays a list of events (including errors and warnings) on the
        ALS server. The events can be filtered by Severity, Node ID, or Type, or by using a
        substring match in the Search field.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
