<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_od4_byj_rs">
  <title>Management Console Settings Menu</title>
  <body>
    <section id="settings">
      <p>The Settings menu provides access to the following Console and system settings:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/cloud-controller">Cloud Controller</xref>
        </li>
        <li><xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/dockerAppSettings">Docker App
            Settings</xref></li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/console-settings-applications"
            >Applications</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/console">Console</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/dea">DEA</xref>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/console-settings-dea">DEA Settings</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/dea-zones-placement">DEA Placement
                Zones</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/dea-zones-available">Availability
                Zones</xref>
            </li>
            <li>
              <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/feature-flags">Feature Flags</xref>
            </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/logyard">Logyard</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/quotaPlans">Quota
            Plans</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/file-system">File System</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/harbor">Harbor</xref>
        </li>
        <li>
          <xref type="section" href="#topic_od4_byj_rs/data-services">Data Services</xref>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="cloud-controller">
      <title>Cloud Controller</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Maintenance Mode</b>: Shuts down API requests but continues to serve web requests,
          useful when performing system operations such as importing and exporting data for
          upgrades. When the primary node enters maintenance mode, the Management Console becomes
          "read only" with the exception of this toggle (so that it can be brought back
          online).</li>
        <li>
          <b>Logging Level</b>: Changes the verbosity of logs from 'debug2' (most verbose) through
          'off' (silent).</li>
        <li>
          <b>Support Email</b>: The email address displayed to end users when errors are
          encountered. Use an address which is monitored by administrators.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Sample App URLs</b>: URIs for URIs for JSON files which populate the <xref
            href="app-store.dita">Sample Applications</xref> The URIs need not be public, but
          must be accessible from the controller node.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Allowed Repos</b>: Debian package repositories allowed in application containers. End
          users can install additional packages (e.g. with apt-get or aptitude) only from these
          repositories. When adding new repositories, GPG keys for each new repo must also be added
          to the Docker base container See <xref
            href="../server/configuration.dita#topic31232/allowed-repositories" type="section"
            >Allowed Repositories</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="dockerAppSettings"><title>Docker App Settings</title><dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Require sudo</dt>
          <dd>Limit Docker image deployment to Organizations with <codeph>sudo</codeph> permissions
            enabled in the Quota Plan.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Allow any docker registry</dt>
          <dd>Let users deploy Docker images from any registry server. <note type="warning">Docker
              image deployment should be limited to either a trusted group of users, trusted image
              sources, or both. Allowing any user to deploy Docker images without restrictions is
              not recommended. </note></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Allowed Docker Registries</dt>
          <dd> A list of servers, namespaces, or images that users are allowed to deploy. The
            pattern match is anchored to the beginning of the string, so 'web-app' matches
            'web-app-foo'. Limit this with ":" to end an image name or "/" to end a URL or
            namespace.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>For example:</dt>
          <dd>
            <table id="table_y3c_5p2_5s">
              <tgroup cols="2">
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry>Pattern</entry>
                    <entry>Matches</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>web-app:</entry>
                    <entry>image name (Docker Hub official images) </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>namespace/</entry>
                    <entry>organization namespace (Docker Hub)</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>web-app:rel-v2</entry>
                    <entry>image with tag/version (Docker Hub)</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>namespace/web-app:</entry>
                    <entry>image in a specific namespace (Docker Hub)</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>reg.example.com/</entry>
                    <entry>specific registry server</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>reg.example.com/namespace/</entry>
                    <entry>namespace on a specific registry server</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>reg.example.com/namespace/web-app:</entry>
                    <entry>fully qualified image path</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>user:pass@reg.example.com/</entry>
                    <entry>registry server with credentials</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>reg.example.com:49153/</entry>
                    <entry>registry server on a specific port</entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <b>Allowed Repos</b>: Debian package repositories allowed in application containers. End users
      can install additional packages (e.g. with apt-get or aptitude) only from these repositories.
      When adding new repositories, GPG keys for each new repo must also be added to the Docker base
      container See <xref href="../server/configuration.dita#topic31232/allowed-repositories"
        type="section">Allowed Repositories</xref>. </section>
    <section id="console-settings-applications">
      <title>Applications</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Reserved URIs: Virtual hostnames and URIs reserved for use by the system which cannot be
          used for end user applications. This prevents users from deploying applications on URIs
          which the system requires (ex: 'api'), or for cases where a particular DNS sub-domain
          record is not being resolved to the system.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="console">
      <title>Console</title>
      <p>Various settings and templates to customize the look and feel of the Management Console.
        The settings are divided into the following categories:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Product: Options to rename and reversion ALS for OEM deployments, change the default
          locale (currently only 'en' and 'de' available), choose a different URL for documentation,
          or disable console pingbacks.</li>
        <li>Client: A version number setting and alternative paths/URLs for alternative or renamed
          CLI clients.</li>
        <li>Look and Feel: Change the favicon, header, footer, or background color.</li>
        <li>Welcome Page: EJS templated HTML to display on the Welcome page (see above).</li>
        <li>Support Page: EJS templated HTML to display on the Support page. Change this if you are
          supporting your end users directly.</li>
        <li>Eula Content: End User License Agreement. Change this only if you are an OEM customer
          exposing Helion to end users under your own specific licensing terms.</li>
        <li>Custom Stylesheet: A single CSS file used to override any existing styling in the
          Management Console. Inspect the Console with browser tools such as Firebug or Chrome
          Developer Tools to see the class names and IDs.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Detailed instructions for customizing the Console can be found in the <xref
          href="customize.dita#topic5029">Customization</xref> documentation.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dea">
      <title>DEA</title>
    </section>
    <section id="console-settings-dea">
      <title>DEA Settings</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Max Memory Percentage</b>: The percentage of physical memory each DEA node can use for
          hosted applications. The 80% default setting leaves enough memory for the operating system
          and DEA processes on a node with 4GB of RAM. This can be increased on nodes with more
          memory available (e.g. to 90% on a node with 8GB of RAM). Do not exceed 100% unless the
          system correctly supports swap space and has it enabled. Restart all DEA roles/nodes to
          apply the change.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Max Staging Duration</b>: The maximum time allowed for application staging.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="dea-zones-placement">
      <title>DEA Placement Zones</title>
      <p>A filterable list of DEA Placement Zones on the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="dea-zones-available">
      <title>DEA Availability Zones</title>
      <p>A filterable list of Availability Zones on the system.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="feature-flags">
      <title>Feature Flags</title>
      <p>Organization managers and developers can be granted permission to perform certain tasks
        using feature flags. If a task's feature flag is disabled, only admins can perform these
        tasks. These options can also be managed using the CLI client with the <xref
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-flags.dita">feature flag</xref> commands.</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enable App Bits Upload </dt>
          <dd>Allows developers to upload application bits. This flag is <b>enabled</b> by
            default.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enable App Scaling </dt>
          <dd>Allows developers to scale applications. This flag is <b>enabled</b> by default.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enable Private Domain Creation </dt>
          <dd>Allows organization managers to create private domains for that organization. This
            flag is <b>enabled</b> by default.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt> Enable Route Creation </dt>
          <dd>Allows developers to create routes in a space. This flag is <b>enabled</b> by default.
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Enable Service Instance Creation </dt>
          <dd>Allows developers to create service instances in a space. This flag is <b>enabled</b>
            by default.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt> Enable User Organization Creation </dt>
          <dd>Allows any user to create an organization via the API. This flag is <b>disabled</b> by
            default.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>
    <section id="logyard">
      <title>Logyard</title>
      <p>Lists current log <xref href="../server/logging.dita#topic11928/drains" type="section"
          >drains</xref> and the log drain retry limits. Drains and limits cannot be changed in this
        interface; use the <codeph><xref
            href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-log-drain-add"
            type="section">kato log drain</xref></codeph> commands and <codeph><xref
            href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432/kato-command-ref-config" type="section"
            >kato config</xref></codeph> commands.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="file-system">
      <title>File System</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Capacity</b>: Maximum number of data service instances to allow globally across all Organizations and Spaces.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Max FS Size</b>: Maximum size on disk for filesystem services in MB.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Allow Over-provisioning</b>: Ignore the Capacity setting.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="quotaPlans">
      <title>Quota Plans</title>
      <p>Lists the Quota Plans available to apply to Organizations on the system. To edit a
        definition, click the edit button on the right. To create a new definition, use the <xref
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-quotas.dita#topic5727/command-quota-create"
          type="section">
          <i>quota create</i>
        </xref> command.</p>
      <p>The following fields can be modified:</p>
      <ul id="ul_jzr_xq2_5s">
        <li>
          <b>Name</b>: The definition name. Do not change this without also changing the settings of
          any Organization using the definition.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Memory Usage Limit</b>: The total amount of application RAM (in MB) that can be
          allocated to user applications.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Total Services</b>: The total number of service instances that can be allocated.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Total Routes</b>: The total number of routes that can be created.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Droplets per App</b>: The number of droplets stored (per application) for versioning
          and rollback.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Allow Sudo</b>: Allow users in the Organization sudo privileges within their
          application containers.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="harbor">
      <title>Harbor</title>
      <p>Settings for the <xref href="../cluster/harbor.dita#topic4009">Harbor </xref>TCP/UDP
        port service. See <xref href="../cluster/harbor.dita#topic4009/requirements-setup"
          >Harbor: Requirements</xref> &amp; Setup for more information.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>External Host</b>: The public IP (if configured) for the Harbor node.</li>
        <li>
          <b>External Hostname</b>: The public hostname for the Harbor node.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Port Range Minimum</b>: Sets the minimum for the exposed port range (default:
          35000).</li>
        <li>
          <b>Port Range Maximum</b>: Sets the maximum for the exposed port range (default:
          40000).</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="data-services">
      <title>Data Services</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Allow Over-provisioning</b>: Ignore the Capacity setting.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Capacity</b>: Maximum number of data service instances to allow globally across all Organizations and Spaces.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Max DB size</b>: Maximum size on disk for database services.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Max Memory</b>: Maximum amount of physical memory to allocate the service.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Memcached Memory</b>: Maximum amount of physical memory to allocate for memcached
          instances.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Max FS Size</b>: Maximum size on disk for filesystem services.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
