<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_zqb_nk4_xs">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform Management Console: Introduction</title>
  <body>
    <p>The Management Console is a web interface that allows the  administration and management of the ALS Server.</p>
    <p>Your hypervisor provides <xref href="../../user/reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-tty-console">tty console</xref> access to
      each of its virtual
      machines<!--. After startup, the VM displays:: <codeblock>Helion Management Console at 
https://helion-xxxx.local  </codeblock>--><!-- On a <xref href="../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-micro-cloud">micro cloud</xref> VM where the local network supports <xref href="../reference/glossary.dita#topic6187/term-multicast-dns">multicast DNS</xref>, the hostname will be <codeph>horixon-xxxx.local</codeph>.-->
      If you have configured the <xref
        href="../server/configuration.dita#topic31232/server-config-hostname">hostname</xref> and
        <xref href="../server/configuration.dita#topic31232/server-config-hostname">DNS</xref> of
      the server manually, or are connecting to a server administered by someone else, supply the
      assigned hostname [Example: <codeph>api.helion-test.example.com</codeph>] Enter that URL into
      your web browser and the Management Console will load. </p>    <p>The Console is supported on the following browsers:  
        <ul>
          <li>Chrome 30+ (WebKit) </li>
          <li>Firefox 20+ </li>
          <li>IE 10+  </li>        
        </ul> Using a browser which fully supports WebSockets is recommended.</p>
      
      <note>The SSL certificate for the ALS Management Console is self-signed. You will need to manually accept this certificate in your browser. See the <xref href="../server/https_and_ssl.dita#topic_gwr_qgd_ws/using-your-own-ssl-certificate">HTTPS documentation</xref> for information on using your own certificate.</note>   
      
      <p>When you first access the Management Console, you will be prompted to create a primary
      administrative user. Enter an email address as the username, set a secure password, then
      review and accept the license agreement. </p><note type="important">The password you choose here becomes the login password for the <codeph>helion</codeph> user on the VM. This user and password is used for <codeph>ssh</codeph> access.  </note>  
      <p>Once you've logged in, you can add other users and admins, enable and disable services, and
      generally set up the system to meet your requirements. note that advanced maintenance and
      configuration tasks may need to be done at the command line using the <codeph>kato</codeph>
      command utility or the <codeph>cf-mgmt</codeph> cluster creation tool. See the command-line
      tool references (<xref href="../reference/kato-ref.dita#topic39432">kato</xref>, <xref
        href="../../CLI/ALS_Client_Reference.dita#topic13234">cf-mgmt</xref>, or the <xref
        href="../../user/reference/client-ref.dita#topic13355">helion client</xref>) for a full
      list of options. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
