<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5029">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Management Console Customization</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Security Engineer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Net Ops Engineer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="NOC Engineer"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The Management Console can be extensively customized and themed. Administrators can add or
      remove runtimes, frameworks and services from the system, and change the look and content of
      the <xref href="console_index.dita">Management Console</xref> interface.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/console-settings">Console Settings</xref>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/product">Product</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/look-and-feel">Look and Feel</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/welcome-page">Welcome Page</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/support-page">Support Page</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/eula-content">Eula Content</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/custom_error">Error Pages</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/custom-stylesheet">Custom Stylesheet</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/settings-variables">Settings Variables</xref>
          </li>
          <li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic5029/restoring-values">Restoring values</xref>
          </li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>
    <section id="console-settings">
      <title>Console Settings</title>
      <p>The Management Console is modified mainly through the <b>Settings &gt; Console</b> pages.
        Settings are saved as variables which can subsequently be used in HTML pages via the <xref
          href="http://embeddedjs.com/" scope="external" format="html">Embedded JavaScript
          (EJS)</xref> templating engine.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="product">
      <title>Product</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Product Name</b>: Overrides all occurrences of 'Application Lifecycle Service'</li>
        <li>
          <b>Company Name</b>: Overrides all occurrences of 'HPE Software'</li>
        <li>
          <b>Vendor Version</b>: Overrides all occurrences of the Application Lifecycle Service
          version number.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Default Locale</b>: Sets the default locale of the console if the users current locale
          isn't recognized. Currently, only the 'en' localization is complete.</li>
        <li>
          <b>External Docs URL</b>: The link that directs users to documentation. Defaults to the
          current documentation published to docs.hpcloud.com. Ticking 'Use local docs' will cause
          this URL to be ignored and the docs from the VM will be served instead.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="look-and-feel">
      <title>Look and Feel</title>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>Favicon Logo URL</b>: The favicon to use. Recommended to be 32x32px image/png.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Header Logo URL</b>: The logo image to use in the header. Size can vary although
          anything bigger than 50px vertically may result in some distortion of the header (fixable
          with a custom style sheet).</li>
        <li>
          <b>Footer Logo URL</b>: The logo image to use in the footer. Same as above but height is
          about 40px before distortion occurs.</li>
        <li>
          <b>Background Color</b>: Sets the background color of the console.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="welcome-page">
      <title>Welcome Page</title>
      <p>The HTML/EJS to show on the Welcome page. The <xref type="section"
          href="#topic5029/settings-variables">
          <i>settings-variables</i>
        </xref> and <codeph>username</codeph> variable (current user) are available via EJS, but
        plain HTML will work for simple use cases.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="support-page">
      <title>Support Page</title>
      <p>The HTML/EJS to show on the Support page. The <xref type="section"
          href="#topic5029/settings-variables">
          <i>settings-variables</i>
        </xref> and <codeph>support_email</codeph> variable (see Settings &gt; Controller) are
        available.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="eula-content">
      <title>Eula Content</title>
      <p>The HTML/EJS to show in the EULA overlay. The <xref type="section"
          href="#topic5029/settings-variables">
          <i>settings-variables</i>
        </xref> are available.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="custom_error">
      <title>Custom Error Pages</title>
      <p>To expose customized error pages, create the following HTML files in
          <i>/home/stackato/stackato/static/vendor/errors/</i> on <b>each</b> Router node:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>404.html</li>
        <li>422.html</li>
        <li>500.html</li>
        <li>502.html</li>
        <li>app-not-available.html</li>
      </ul>
      <p>When present, these files will be used to display the corresponding HTTP errors. The
        default error page files (located at <i>/home/stackato/stackato/code/console/errors/</i>)
        can be used as a reference, but should not be modified directly as changes may be lost
        during upgrades or patches.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="custom-stylesheet">
      <title>Custom Stylesheet</title>
      <p>CSS defined here will be applied to the page after the default CSS has been loaded, and
        override/replace any style. Use this to change the layout and color of any element in the
        Management Console. Use web development tools like Firebug or Chrome DevTools to inspect
        elements and find the relevant styles.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="settings-variables">
      <title>Settings Variables</title>
      <p>The following variables (with their default values) are available in the EJS templates on
        the settings object (e.g. <i>settings.product_name</i>):</p>
      <ul>
        <li>product_name: null,</li>
        <li>company_name: 'HPE Software',</li>
        <li>vendor_version: '3.0',</li>
        <li>default_locale: 'en',</li>
        <li>product_logo_favicon_url: 'img/helion_logo_favicon.png',</li>
        <li>product_logo_header_url: 'img/helion_logo_header.png',</li>
        <li>product_logo_footer_url: 'img/helion_logo_footer.png',</li>
        <li>background_color: '#ffffff',</li>
        <li>style: '',</li>
        <li>support_template: SupportTemplate,</li>
        <li>eula_template: EulaTemplate,</li>
        <li>welcome_template: WelcomeTemplate,</li>
        <li>external_docs_url: 'http://docs.hpcloud.com',</li>
        <li>use_local_docs: "false"</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section id="restoring-values">
      <title>Restoring values</title>
      <p>Each setting has an individual <b>Load Default</b> button (refresh icon to the left of the
        value field) which will replace the customized value with the default for that setting.
        Click 'Save' to apply the changes.</p>
      <p>The red <b>Load Defaults</b> button at the top of the page deletes all customizations and
        loads defaults for all settings.</p>
      <p>As a failsafe for when style changes have obscured the interface, admins can also reset
        specific settings by loading a URL with the following format:</p>
      <codeblock>https://&lt;helion-url&gt;#settings/console/reset/setting_name</codeblock>
      <p>Replace <b>setting_name</b> with one of the variables above and that value will be reset to
        the default.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
