---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/
title: "HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Perl "
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: Perl {#perl}

Perl applications deployed to Application Lifecycle Service using the default 'perl'
framework are run with [PSGI](http://plackperl.org/). Applications are
started from a top-level script which must be called `app.psgi`. For
example, in the
[mojo-helloworld](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/mojo-helloworld)
sample application:

    $ENV{MOJO_MODE} = 'production';
    require 'app.pl';

**Note**

Both Dancer and Mojolicious scripts automatically use the PSGI protocol,
so there is no need to create a separate app.psgi for them.

The script is a pointer to the actual application,
[app.pl](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/mojo-helloworld/app.pl). You
could rename `app.pl` to `app.psgi` instead, but using the approach above
allows you to set PSGI-specific configurations in a separate file.

It is possible to [serve static files with uWSGI](#uwsgi-perl-static-files).

The [*perlcgi*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/perlcgi/#perlcgi) framework is also available for
running traditional Perl CGI applications without PSGI.

## Deploying Applications {#deploying-applications}

The following is a list of pages with details for deploying various
application types.

-   [CGI:Application:PSGI](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/cgiapppsgi/)
-   [Perl CGI](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/perlcgi/)
-   [Catalyst](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/catalyst/)
-   [Mason](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/mason/)
-   [Mojolicious](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/mojo/)
-   [Dancer](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/languages/perl/dancer/)

##Database Services {#database-services}

Authentication details for your configured database services can be
found in the `$ENV` variable, under
`DATABASE_URL` or `VCAP_SERVICES`. Here is an example of getting the correct credentials.

### MYSQL\_URL[](#mysql-url "Permalink to this headline")

    my($user,$password,$host,$port,$name) = $ENV{MYSQL_URL} =~ m{mysql://(.+?):(.+)\@(.+?):(\d+)/(.*)}
        or die "MySQL service not configured";
    print $host;
    print $name;
    print $password;
    print $port;
    print $user;

### VCAP\_SERVICES[](#vcap-services "Permalink to this headline")

    use DBI;
    use DBD::mysql;
    use JSON "decode_json";

    if ($ENV{VCAP_SERVICES}) {
        # Extract and convert the JSON string in the VCAP_SERVICES environment variable
        my $vcap_services = decode_json ($ENV{VCAP_SERVICES});

        # Get the database credentials
        my $cred = $vcap_services->{mysql}[0]{credentials};

        # Use the credentials to form whatever connection string your database interface requires
        my $dbh = DBI->connect("DBI:mysql:database=$cred->{name};hostname=$cred->{hostname};port=$cred->{port};",
                               $cred->{user}, $cred->{password})
            or die "Unable to connect: $DBI::errstr\n";
    }
    else {
        # No VCAP_SERVICES environment variable.  Use other connection.
        my $dbh = DBI->connect("DBI:mysql:database=mydb;hostname=127.0.0.1;port=3306;",
                               "username", "password")
            or die "Unable to connect: $DBI::errstr\n";
    }

## Worker Applications {#worker-applications}

Non-HTTP apps that run as an Application Lifecycle Service application under the control of
the Health Manager.

To deploy worker applications, you need to use the
[*command*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#command) key and set the
[*processes:
web*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/#web) key to
Null ("\~").

### Example {#example}

    name: perl-app
    framework: perl
    command: perl worker.pl
    processes:
      web: ~

## Installing module dependencies {#installing-module-dependencies}

If the modules your app needs are available via PPM or CPAN, let
Application Lifecycle Service install them and their dependencies using one of the following
methods rather than including them in the source tree of your
application code.

### CPAN Modules via PPM {#cpan-modules-via-ppm}

[PPM](http://code.activestate.com/ppm) is the binary package manager for
ActivePerl. It is usually the fastest and most reliable way of
installing CPAN modules in the Application Lifecycle Service application droplet. Current
versions of most CPAN modules and frameworks are available.

Modules required by your app can be specified by adding a
`requirements:` section to the
[*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/) file. For example:

    requirements:
      ppm:
        - CGI::Application::PSGI
        - Plack::Builder
        - Data::Dumper
        - JSON
        - JSON::Parse
        - DBI
        - DBD::mysql

**Note**: If you want to use *cpan* to download the modules, change `ppm:` to `cpan:`.

Alternatively, include a top-level *requirements.txt* file. The requirements.txt for a minimal Mojolicious app would be just:

    Mojolicious

Prerequisite modules for the framework are installed automatically.

For a simple Dancer application:

    Dancer
    YAML
    Plack::Request

Custom modules that are included within the project can be used in the
normal method:

    use lib "lib";
    use MyCustomPM;

Any non-core dependencies required by these custom modules should be
specified explicitly in *requirements.txt*, *manifest.yml* or
*Makefile.PL* (see below) otherwise those dependencies will not be
packed in the application droplet.

### CPAN Modules via cpanm {#cpan-modules-via-cpanm}

If the module you require is not available in the HP PPM
repositories, or if you need a
specific version (PPM provides only the current release), you can use
[cpanm](http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-cpanminus/bin/cpanm) to install
them. Any dependencies included in ActivePerl or installed by PPM will
be reused rather than being rebuilt.

You can specify modules for installation via `cpanm`
by including them in one of the following files:

#### manifest.yml {#manifest-yml}

Add a `cpan:` section to *manifest.yml* that
specifies version conditions, requests a module via HTTP URL, or fetches
a branch from a git repo. For example:

    requirements:
      cpan:
        - Mojolicious~">=3.0, <3.50"
        - git://github.com/doy/try-tiny.git@Try-Tiny-0.09
        - http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/G/GA/GAAS/Data-Dump-1.20.tar.gz

This example installs a version of Mojolicious equal or later than 3.0,
but prior to 3.50. Since no such version exists on CPAN, it is fetched
from the BackPAN archive. It then installs the Try-Tiny-0.09 tag from
the try-tiny.git repository (could also be a branch or commit name), and
finally installs Data-Dump-1.20.tar.gz from an absolute download URL.

#### Makefile.PL {#makefile-pl}

[Makefile.PL](https://metacpan.org/module/ExtUtils::MakeMaker::Tutorial)
is a standard format for specifying dependencies in Perl modules.
Application Lifecycle Service will use this if there is no *cpanfile* or *carton.lock* file.

#### cpanfile {#cpanfile}

The [cpanfile](https://metacpan.org/module/MIYAGAWA/Module-CPANfile-0.9031/lib/cpanfile.pod) format is preferable for Perl web applications, as *Makefile.PL* is
generally intended for Perl modules. It allows for more elaborate
specification of module dependencies (see the [cpanfile
SYNOPSIS](https://metacpan.org/module/MIYAGAWA/Module-CPANfile-0.9031/lib/cpanfile.pod#SYNOPSIS)
for more information).

#### carton.lock {#carton-lock}

The [carton](https://metacpan.org/module/Carton) module dependency
manager is similar in concept to Ruby's Bundler.

To use it, first install carton locally using `ppm`
or `cpanm`.

Run the `carton install` command in the base
directory of an application with a *cpanfile*. This installs the modules
locally and creates a *carton.lock* file.

If you want to include modules which are not in a public CPAN
repository, run `carton bundle` to add the source
packages in a *local/cache* sub-directory of the application. Application Lifecycle Service
will install those modules from the cached files.

#### Disable Testing {#disable-testing}

Disabling tests in cpanm can decrease staging times for applications
with numerous module dependencies, especially if those dependencies have
large test suites.

To disable testing for cpanm in staging, set
[PERL\_CPANM\_OPT](http://search.cpan.org/dist/App-cpanminus/bin/cpanm#OPTIONS)
to '--notest' in [*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/):

    name: myapp
    env:
      PERL_CPANM_OPT: --notest

#### Custom CPAN Mirror {#custom-cpan-mirror}

To make cpanminus use a specific CPAN repository (e.g. a local mirror or
private repo), instead of the default public ones, set the
`--mirror` and `--mirror-only`
options in PERL\_CPANM\_OPT:

    env:
      PERL_CPANM_OPT: --mirror http://cpan.example.com --mirror-only

###Serving Static Files with uWSGI {#serving-static-files-with-uwsgi}

It is possible to serve static files with uWSGI using
`processes: web:` in the
[*manifest.yml*](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/deploy/manifestyml/) file to specify
folders that will be served statically and not by the app.

To make a single folder serve statically, use `--check-static`:

    processes:
        web: $HELION_UWSGI --check-static $HOME/<folder>

To specify multiple folders with static files that do not share a common
root, use `--static-map`:

    processes:
        web: $HELION_UWSGI --static-map /foo=$HOME/static --static-map /bar=$HOME/sub

In this case */foo/index.html* would serve *\$HOME/static/index.html*,
and */bar/index.html* would serve *\$HOME/sub/index.html*. If the file
doesn't exist, then uWSGI will forward the request to the app.

**Note**: Serving static files via uWSGI is only available for Perl and Python
frameworks.

## Runtime {#runtime}

Application Lifecycle Service deploys Perl applications with [ActivePerl
5.14](http://docs.activestate.com/activeperl/5.14/).

## Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}

### General {#general}

If your application fails to stage or launch successfully, use the
helion logs command to check the stdout and stderr logs.

If there are no helpful messages in those files, there are two
additional log files (staging.log and ppm4.log) which can be accessed
with the helion files command:

    helion files myapp logs/staging.log
    helion files myapp logs/ppm4.log

### Other Issues {#other-issues}

**Problem**
:   Application installs but the result is an empty window.
**Possible Resolutions**
:   Perl apps require the Content-Length header to be set in order for
    pages to display correctly. Some frameworks handle this already,
    while for others it needs to be done specifically.

    If you are using CGI::Application::PSGI, add the following to your
    app.psgi file:

        use Plack::Builder;

        ...

        builder {
                ...
                enable 'Plack::Middleware::ContentLength';
                ...
        };

Examples[](#examples "Permalink to this headline")
---------------------------------------------------

Several Perl samples are available in
[Application Lifecycle Service-Apps](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps) on GitHub.

-   [Mojo Scaling Demo](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/mojo-scalingdemo)
-   [Retester](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/retester)
-   [PhotoBooth](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/photobooth)
-   [Perl Critic](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/perlcritic.com)
-   [Bugzilla](https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bugzilla)

