<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic15959cga">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: API and SDK Reference</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="All"/>
      <othermeta name="role" content="Amanda F"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion OpenStack"/>
      <othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion OpenStack 1.1"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>This document describes <xref href="#topic15959cga/api" format="dita">the APIs</xref> and
          <xref href="#topic15959cga/sdk" format="dita">the Software Development Kit (SDK)</xref>
        available for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade.</p>
    </section>
<section id="api"><title>APIs</title>
      <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade is built on OpenStack technologies.</p>
      <p>The OpenStack REST API Documentation is open-source; both the published formats (PDF and
        HTML pages) as well as the docbook/wadl source documents. </p>
      <p>The open-source OpenStack REST API Documentation is currently NOT versioned. There is only
        a master/current version of the OpenStack REST API Documentation containing updates from
        'all' versions of OpenStack.</p>
  
  <dl>
    <dlentry>
      <dt><b>Non-KVM Region API</b></dt> 
      <dd>
        <p>For the API reference for the non-KVM region, see the <xref
          href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref.html" format="html" scope="external">OpenStack API Complete Reference</xref>.</p>
    <p>For the specific OpenStack services supported by HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade, see <xref
        href="../Overview/carrier-grade.services-overview.dita#topic4220">Services Overview</xref>.</p> 
      </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt><b>KVM Region API</b></dt> 
      <dd>
        <p>For the API refernece for the KVM region, see <xref
                href="http://gaf2871b9d2d13cf45c1306b35bf01764.cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/HP-Helion-OpenStack-Carrier-Grade-REST-API.pdf"
                format="pdf" scope="external">HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade: REST API
                Guide</xref>. This document contains HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions to
              the OpenStack Compute API for use with the servers in the KVM region.
              <!--From the WR API doc--></p>
      
              <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade supports the following external REST APIs through
                its OAM floating IP address:</p>
              <ul id="ul_ylk_dcv_ds">
                <li>
                  <p>OpenStack REST APIs</p>
                  <ul id="ul_jry_kvz_cs">
                    <li>
                      <p>Object Storage API</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Block Storage API (with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions)</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Compute API (with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions)</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Identity API</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Image Service API</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Networking API (with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions)</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Orchestration API</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Telemetry API (with HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions)</p>
                    </li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade REST APIs</p>
                  <ul id="ul_xgp_scv_ds">
                    <li>
                      <p>SysInv API</p>
                    </li>
                    <li>
                      <p>Patching API</p>
                    </li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
              </ul>
              <note id="note_N1053E_N104EC_N104E8_N104DF_N104D3_N10040_N1002C_N10024_N10001">
                <p>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions use the OpenStack Extension
                  Mechanism to ensure compatibility with existing clients.</p>
              </note>
              <p>HTTP or HTTPS protocol can be supported for these external REST APIs.</p>
      </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      <dt><b>ESX API</b></dt>
      <dd>
      <p>You can use aspects of the VMware vSphere<tm tmtype="reg"/> API, as
        applicable for your license agreement. Refer to the vSphere documentation for more
        information.</p>
      </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
      
      <dt><b>DCN API</b></dt> 
      <dd>
      <p>You can use aspects of the HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN) API, 
      as applicable for your license agreement. Refer to the DCN documentation for more information.</p>
    </dd></dlentry>
      </dl></section>
    
    <section id="sdk">
      <title>Software Development Kit (SDK)</title>
      <p>An SDK can be used by guest applications to interact programmatically with HP Helion
        OpenStack Carrier Grade. </p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software Development Kit (SDK)</dt>          
          <dd>
        <p>The HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade Software Development Kit (SDK) provides drivers,
              daemons, API libraries, and configuration files that you can include in a guest image
              to leverage the extended capabilities of HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade. Available
              components include: <!--From the WR SDK doc--></p>
      <ul id="ul_zdh_d51_ds">
        <li>
          <p>Accelerated Kernel Network Drivers—Drivers for improved performance of kernel-based
            networking VNFs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Accelerated DPDK Network Drivers—Drivers for high-performance DPDK-based networking
            VNFs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>VM Resource Scaling—A service for scaling the capacity of a guest server on demand</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Guest Heartbeat—A service for health monitoring of guest applications</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Server Group Messaging—A service for low-bandwidth peer messaging between servers in
            the same group</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>SNMP MIB—Resources for system alarms management</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Sample Heat Orchestration Templates—Resources for deploying and managing stacks of
            applications or application services</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>OpenStack REST API Documentation—Documentation for HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade
            REST APIs and HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade extensions to OpenStack REST APIs</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Custom Branding—Resources for customizing the Horizon GUI</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>See the <xref
          href="http://gaf2871b9d2d13cf45c1306b35bf01764.cdn.hpcloudsvc.com/HP-Helion-OpenStack-Carrier-Grade-SDK-2.0.pdf"
          format="pdf">Software Development Kit documentation</xref>.</p>
    </dd>
    </dlentry>
    </dl>
    </section>


  </body>
</topic>
