<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="opsconsole">
  <title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: Operations Console</title>
  <body>
    <!--Needs Edit-->
    <section><title>About the Operations Console</title></section>
    <section id="about">
      <p>The Operations Console (Ops Console) for HP Helion OpenStack 2.0 is designed for HP Helion
        Openstack Administrators to have a web-based UI they can use to view data about their cloud
        infrastructure. The Ops Console is a web-based GUI that offers the user access to data such
        as monitoring alarms data by service, performance data, compute nodes and instances lists,
        and a drilldown to Kibana for a deep look into logs. The Business Logic Layer is a
        middleware component that serves as a single point of contact for the UI to communicate with
        Openstack services such as Monasca, Nova, and others.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Connecting to the Operations Console</title></section>
    <section id="connecting">
      <p>If your administrator set a hostname value for <codeph>external_name</codeph> in your
          <codeph>network_groups.yml</codeph> file during the configuration process for your cloud
        then the Operations Console will be accessed over port 9095 on that hostname.</p>
      <p>If your administrator did not set a hostname value then in order to determine which IP
        address to use to access Horizon you can use this command from your lifecycle-manager node:
        <codeblock>grep vip-HZN-WEB /etc/hosts</codeblock></p>
      <p>The output of that command will show you the virtual IP address you should use. It is
        listening over port 9095 on that virtual IP address, so you can use the following syntax to
        access it:<codeblock>http://VIP:9095</codeblock></p>
      <p>The default username for the Administrator user is <codeph>admin</codeph>. In order to find
        the randomized password that is created for this user you will need to look into the
          <codeph>~/service.osrc</codeph> file on the deployer/lifecycle-manager node. You can do
        that with this command:</p>
      <codeblock>cat ~/service.osrc</codeblock>
      <note type="important">The credentials for your <codeph>admin</codeph> user account can be
        changed. See <xref href="../identity/identity_init.dita">Keystone Configuration</xref> for
        more details.</note>
      <p>For details on the use of the Operations Console, see <xref href="opsconsole_overview.dita"
          >Operations Console Overview</xref></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
