<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pg2_qbl_ls">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Adding Buildpacks</title>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p> The Application Lifecycle Service (ALS) has a number of built-in buildpacks installed by
        default. Administrators can install additional buildpacks, making them available to
        developers pushing applications. </p></section><section><title>Building Packages</title> Buildpacks are normally hosted in Git
        repositories with a standard structure described in <xref
          href="https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpack-api" format="html" scope="external"
          >Heroku's Buildpack API documentation</xref>. These repositories can be packaged into .zip
        archives and uploaded to ALS alongside the other built-in buildpacks. Built-in buildpacks
        come in two types: <ul id="ul_lqf_vbl_ls">
          <li><b>Online</b> buildpacks fetch dependencies and artifacts from the internet during
            application staging. </li>
          <li><b>Offline</b> buildpacks bundle all software dependencies the application needs.</li>
        </ul>The buildpack .zip files are typically much larger, but can stage and run applications
        on DEA nodes without access to the internet. Note: ALS ships with online buildpacks to keep
        the size of the VM to a minimum. Once the system is set up, changing these to offline
        versions can improve staging times substantially. Examples of buildpacks with offline
        versions are: <ul id="ul_k3d_xbl_ls">
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/cloudfoundry/buildpack-ruby" format="html"
              scope="external">cloudfoundry/buildpack-ruby </xref></li>
          <li><xref href="https://github.com/cloudfoundry/java-buildpack" format="html" scope="external">
            cloudfoundry/java-buildpack</xref></li>
        </ul> When run with "offline" options, the bin/package script or package build target for
        these buildpacks fetch the external assets and bundle them in the .zip file. See their
        respective README files for more information. </section><section><title>Installing Packaged Buildpacks</title> Use the create-buildpack command to upload
      and install buildpack .zip archives. For example:
      <codeblock>helion create-buildpack June2014CF-ruby ruby_buildpack.zip
Creating new buildpack June2014CF-ruby ... OK
Uploading buildpack bits ... 100% OK 
OK</codeblock></section>
    <section><title>Buildpack Order</title> When users push applications to the system without
      specifying an external buildpack, ALS cycles through the detect scripts of the installed
      buildpacks looking for one to match the pushed application type. The first buildpack to match
      the application detection heuristics will stage and run the pushed application. The order in
      which these detect scripts are run is displayed by the <i>buildpacks</i> command. These are
      the default values:<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_esk_sdl_ls">
        <tgroup cols="5">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.45*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.66*"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.81*"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="1.81*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry># </entry>
              <entry>Name </entry>
              <entry>Filename </entry>
              <entry>Enabled </entry>
              <entry>Locked</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>1</entry>
              <entry>Java</entry>
              <entry> java.zip      </entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>2</entry>
              <entry>Ruby</entry>
              <entry>ruby.zip</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>3</entry>
              <entry>Node.js</entry>
              <entry>nodejs.zip</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>4</entry>
              <entry>Python</entry>
              <entry>python.zip   </entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>5</entry>
              <entry>Go</entry>
              <entry>go.zip </entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>6</entry>
              <entry>Clojure</entry>
              <entry>clojure.zip   </entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>7</entry>
              <entry>Scala</entry>
              <entry>scala.zip</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>8</entry>
              <entry>Perl</entry>
              <entry>perl.zip  </entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>9</entry>
              <entry>June2014CF-ruby</entry>
              <entry>ruby_buildpack.zip</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>To change the order, use the <i>update-buildpack</i> command to set the
        <codeph>--position</codeph> of the specified buildpack in this
      queue:<codeblock>helion update-buildpack --position 1 python
Updating buildpack [python] ... 
   Position ... Changed to 1
   Enabled ... Unchanged 
   Locked ... Unchanged 
OK</codeblock>
      Built-in buildpacks can be enabled or disabled using the <codeph>--enable</codeph> and
        <codeph>--disable</codeph> options for this command.</section>
  </body>
</topic>
