<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3370">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Buildpacks</title>
<body>
<p>
<xref href="https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/buildpacks" scope="external" format="html" >Buildpacks</xref> are
bundles of detection and configuration scripts which set up containers
to run applications.</p>
<p>Application deployment is done primarily using buildpacks, and the syntax for specifying which buildpack to use has changed. Instead of using a BUILDPACK_URL environment variable, set the buildpack's Git URL in a  <b>buildpack</b>  key at the top level of <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
<p>Buildpacks are the recommended method for deploying applications to Application Lifecycle Service. Buildpacks replace the built-in frameworks used in previous versions.</p>
<section id="built-in-buildpacks"> <title>Built-In Buildpacks</title>
<p>Application Lifecycle Service will cycle through the <i>detect</i> scripts of the built-in buildpacks prior to staging to match the code you are pushing. For most applications using the built-in buildpacks, no additional ALS configuration is required.</p>
</section>
<section id="legacy-buildpack"> <title>Legacy Buildpack</title>
<p>The legacy buildpack is a special meta-buildpack for deploying applications configured for Cloud Foundry v1 without the need for extensive reconfiguration.</p>
<p>To use the Legacy buildpack: specify the <b>framework</b> type for your application (e.g. php,
play, rails3, sinatra, java_web, java_ee, etc.). You can optionally
set a specific <b>runtime</b> as well. For example:</p>
<codeblock>name: bottle-py3
framework:
  type: python
  runtime: python32</codeblock>
<p>
  <note type="restriction"> When using the Legacy buildpack, config-defined environment variable
          values can only be updated by re-pushing the entire application with the new settings.
          Changes to variables made in the Management Console will be overwritten by the original
          ones defined at push when the application is restarted. To modify custom environment
          variables, re-push the application after changing the values in
            <filepath>manifest.yml</filepath>. </note>
      </p>
</section>
<section id="custom-buildpacks"> <title>Custom Buildpacks</title>
<p>To specify the exact buildpack to use for deploying your application,
set a top-level <codeph>buildpack:</codeph> key in <i>manifest.yml</i> to the URL of the buildpack's Git repository. For example:</p>
<codeblock>name: myrubyapp
memory: 256MB
buildpack: https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-ruby.git</codeblock>
<p>You can use a specific branch by specifying it at the end of the URL using the following format:</p>
<codeblock>buildpack: https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-ruby.git#branchname</codeblock>
<p>There are hundreds of buildpacks available on Github. Searching Github for the term "buildpack" and the name of the language or framework you wish to deploy may provide you with a working solution, or at least the starting point for your own custom buildpack.</p>
<p>
        <note type="caution">Not all Heroku buildpacks work with ALS due to environmental differences such as
          relying on the presence of certain executables or libraries in Heroku-specific locations.
          Examine and test any buildpack carefully before using it in production deployments.</note>
      </p>
      <note type="notice">Using <i>config_vars</i> in a buildpack's <i>bin/release</i> to set environment
        variables has been deprecated. Use a shell script in <i>$HOME/.profile.d</i> instead.</note>
</section>
<section id="procfile"> <title>Procfile</title>
<p>Buildpacks will usually contain a <b>default_process_type</b> setting with the command used to start the application process. If your application needs a custom command to start the process, create a Procfile in the base directory of your application.</p>
<p>The Procfile should contain a single line defining the <b>web:</b> <b>
<i>process</i>
</b> for the application defined. For example:</p>
<codeblock>web: bundle exec rails server -p $PORT</codeblock>
<p>ALS does not support multiple process types in the Procfile. To launch a <i>worker</i> process, create a separate app with an empty URL ( <b>url: [ ]</b> ) in <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
