<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_yw1_w3r_dt">
  <title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Create Your First Docker App</title>
  <body><section>
    <p>This Helion Development Platform release introduces the ability to deploy Docker images. This example takes an existing app and creates a
      Docker image that will run in ALS and take advantage of the provisioned services. </p></section><section>
      <title>Start With a New Stack</title>
      <p>One of the advantages to using Docker is the ability to run different flavors of Linux.
        While ALS is based on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, Docker images can be based on a different distro,
        such as Debian, CentOS, or even Alpine Linux images. This example uses the openSUSE base
        image. </p>
      <p>Docker can compartmentalize system configuration into separate Docker layers, either by
        breaking up configuration steps into separate RUN directives in a single Dockerfile, or by
        creating separate images and chaining them together with the FROM directive at the top of
        each separate Dockerfile. This example includes both methods.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Prerequisites </title><note type="important">For security, Docker container
        deployments are disabled. The organization administrator needs to explicitly <xref
          href="container_enable_deployment.dita#topic_qs2_sgy_kt">enable container
        deployments</xref>.</note> Before attempting to create Docker applications, ensure you have
      the following: <ul>
        <li>A DockerHub account.</li>
        <li>On OSX you also need Boot2Docker installed and running. [Boot2Docker does not need
            <codeph>sudo</codeph> commands.]</li>
        <li>On a Linux machine you also need Docker.</li>
      </ul></section>
    
    
    
    
    
    <section><title>Update and Installing Operating System Packages</title>
        <p>Create a Dockerfile with the content below. This Dockerfile executes an update using the
        package manager; on openSUSE, this is done with <codeph>zypper</codeph>. </p>
          <codeblock>FROM opensuse:13.2  
MAINTAINER Troy Topnik &lt;troyt@activestate.com&gt;

RUN zypper -n up &amp;&amp; zypper -n install python python-pip ca-certificates-mozilla vim 
git curl wget</codeblock>  
        <p>The openSUSE base image is intentionally minimal, so this also installs:
          <dl><dlentry>
            <dt>python</dt>
            <dd>Required for a Python web app </dd>
          </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>python-pip</dt>
              <dd>For installing Python dependencies</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>ca-certificates-mozilla</dt>
              <dd>Required by pip to use SSL </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
              <dt>vim</dt>
              <dd>Editor</dd>
            </dlentry><dlentry>
              <dt>git</dt>
              <dd>For cloning repos or installation from git sources </dd>
            </dlentry><dlentry>
              <dt>curl</dt>
              <dd>For general HTTP testing</dd>
            </dlentry><dlentry><dt>wget</dt><dd>For fetching of potentially useful things.</dd></dlentry>
          </dl></p>
<p>These installations provide the tools that are most likely necessary to script the installation of a Python application, try things out interactively in a locally running Docker container, or troubleshoot apps (through an ssh session).</p>
      
      <p>Notice that a couple of commands were chained together in the RUN statement.
      Every time a RUN command is used in a Dockerfile, it generates another image layer, and there's a hard
      limit of 127 layers in the current versions of Docker (the AUFS default limit). Bundling
      related commands together reduces the number of layers, helping ensure that the maximum is not exceeded.
      If there are relatively few layers, having the update and package install steps in separate RUN commands can take advantage of Docker's ability to
      use cached layers when rebuilding, which can speed up the build significantly.</p>
      </section><section><title>Build, test, and push Docker Images</title> 
      <p>The new "base+1" image layer is named '<i>&lt;myrepo></i>/opensuse-python'. </p><p>To build it, run this command in a directory that is empty
      except for the Dockerfile:</p><codeblock> $ sudo docker build --no-cache -t &lt;myrepo>/opensuse-python .</codeblock><p>In this case, <codeph>--no-cache</codeph> is used to ensure that the <codeph>zypper</codeph> update runs each time it builds, rather than relying on the cached image layer from previous builds.</p>
        <p>After the build completes, open an interactive shell and verify that it went as expected:</p>
<codeblock>sudo docker run -i -t troytop/opensuse-python /bin/sh 
sh-4.2# pip -V
pip 1.5 from /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages (python 2.7) 
sh-4.2# exit </codeblock> 
        <p>Note that if an app is to be shared, it should be pushed to the <xref
          href="https://registry.hub.docker.com/" format="html" scope="external">Docker Hub</xref>
        or other registry server:</p><codeblock>$ sudo docker push &lt;myrepo>/opensuse-python</codeblock></section>
    
    <section><title>Create an Application Container:<i> bottle-currency-suse</i></title><p>First,
        clone the Docker version of the example app (bottle-currency). This app is based on Ubuntu
        12.04, so the Dockerfile can be adapted to work with an opensuse-python image.</p><p>
        <codeblock>git clone <xref href="https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bottle-currency.git" format="html" scope="external">https://github.com/Stackato-Apps/bottle-currency.git</xref></codeblock>
      </p><p> Once the project is cloned, create a Docker file using the following the
      steps:</p><codeblock>FROM <i>&lt;myrepo></i>/opensuse-python 
MAINTAINER <i>&lt;myname> &lt;myemail></i></codeblock>Use
      a different container as a starting point and identify yourself as the maintainer.
      <codeblock>RUN useradd -d /home/www -m -s /bin/bash www 
USER www 
WORKDIR /home/www</codeblock>This
      creates a new user called <codeph>www</codeph> and sets the active user and the working
        directory.<note>For maximum security, no app should run as root unless absolutely
        necessary.</note><codeblock>COPY . . </codeblock>Since the Dockerfile exists in the base
      directory of the bottle-currency sources, this command will recursively copy the contents of
      the current directory into the WORKDIR defined above.
      <codeblock>RUN pip install --user -r requirements.txt </codeblock>This installs the modules
      required by the application. With a staged application, this part would be handled by the
      buildpack instead. <codeblock>EXPOSE 8080</codeblock>Without a $PORT environment variable,
      apps default to running on port 8080. This command EXPOSEs the default port in the container
      so that it's routed to an external port on the DEA host. The ALS router will in turn be able
      to route to the app by forwarding external requests to this <i>hostname:port</i>.<p>With
        Docker Apps, only one port must be exposed. When running a staged app, the application code
        or the Procfile would have to reference the $PORT variable provided in the
      container.</p><codeblock>CMD python wsgi.py</codeblock>This command starts the web process. In
      a staged app, this would be specified in a Procfile. Now that the Dockerfile is ready, the
      next step is to create, test and push the image.repeat the same steps used for the
      opensuse-python image to build, test, and push the image. <p>To build it, run this command in
        a directory that is empty except for the
      Dockerfile:</p><pre>$ sudo docker build --no-cache -t &lt;myrepo&gt;/bottle-currency-suse .</pre>Assuming
      all work was done on localhost, connecting to <codeph>http://localhost:8000 </codeph>with a
      browser will show the running web app, but the error message "An error occurred while
      contacting the server" will appear. The conversion app does not function yet because it
      requires a Redis data service. <p>Push the new image to the Docker Hub:
      </p><codeblock>sudo docker push &lt;myrepo&gt;/bottle-currency-suse</codeblock></section><section><title>Deploying the App</title><p>The bottle-currency app looks for a Redis data service
        exposed by a REDIS_URL environment variable. <xref
          href="../reference/environment.dita#topic7631">Environment variables</xref>
        (VCAP_SERVICES) are injected into the Docker containers to provide connection information
        for any services that have been bound to the app. This is the <xref
          href="http://12factor.net/config" format="html" scope="external">12-Factor method</xref>,
        which has always been standard practice for Cloud Foundry. </p>Deploy the app with the
      following
      command:<codeblock>helion push -n --docker-image &lt;myrepo&gt;/bottle-currency-suse --mem 128 --as docker-currency</codeblock>This
      fetches the Docker image from the Hub and deploys it, but without a database.<note>There are a
        number of ways to parse environment variables when connecting to the data services. If you
        are deploying a Docker image written by a third party, the credentials provided by ALS will
        need to be reformatted into variables that the app can understand. To do this, add another
        layer on top of the third-party image which parses the provided environment variables,
        reformats them in a way the app will understand, and reiterates the CMD / ENTRYPOINT line
        from the original image.</note></section>
  </body>
</topic>
