<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic20922">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Manifest.yml Options</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
  <p>The <i>manifest.yml</i> file sets application configuration options which are then passed to
      ALS during the <xref href="../reference/client-ref-management.dita#topic50918/command-push"
        >helion push</xref> command.</p>
<p>This file is the standard application configuration file format for all Cloud Foundry systems, allowing for portability from those systems to Application Lifecycle Service without configuration changes. See <xref href="http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest.html" scope="external" format="html" >Application Manifests</xref> for the complete canonical documentation.</p>
<p>The client uses the keys to determine values that are otherwise passed by the user as arguments or as answers to prompts.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/name">name:</xref>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/applications">applications</xref>
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/depends-on">depends-on</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/helion">helion</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/buildpack">buildpack:</xref>
</p>

<ul>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/framework">framework:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/type">type:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/runtime">runtime:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/document-root">document-root:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/start-file">start-file:</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/app-dir">app-dir</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/services">services:</xref>
</li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/requirements">requirements:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/os-packages">Operating System Packages</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/language-modules">Language Modules</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/mem">memory:</xref>
          </li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/disk">disk:</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/instances">instances:</xref>
</li>
          <li><xref href="#topic20922/placement-zone" format="dita">placement zones</xref></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/url-or-urls">url (or urls):</xref>
</li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/env">env:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/env-attributes">env Attributes</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/processes">processes:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/web">web:</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/command">command:</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/cron">cron:</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/ignores">ignores:</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/inherit">inherit:</xref>
</li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/hooks">hooks:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/pre-push">pre-push:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/pre-staging">pre-staging:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/post-staging">post-staging:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/pre-running">pre-running:</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/drain">drain:</xref>
</li>
<li>
            <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/min-version">min_version:</xref>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/client">client:</xref>
              </li>
              <li>
                <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/server">server:</xref>
              </li>
            </ul></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/key-substitution">Key Substitution</xref>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="applications"> <title>applications:</title>
<p>This key contains a list of options corresponding to individual apps to
be pushed. Each sub-key should match the name of folders where the files
for each app are contained. For example:</p>
<codeblock>applications:
  web:
    name: springweb
    framework:
      name: spring
    instances: 1
    memory: 512
  worker:
    name: springweb-helper
    framework:
      name: node
    instances: 1
    memory: 64</codeblock>
<p>Here the two keys <codeph>web:</codeph> and <codeph>worker:</codeph> match subdirectories (named <codeph>web</codeph> and
<codeph>worker</codeph>) of the directory containing the
<i>manifest.yml</i> file.</p>
<p>The shortcut "." can be used if the application code is in the top level
directory along with the <i>manifest.yml</i> file:</p>
<codeblock>applications:
  .:
    name: singleapp
    framework:
      name: spring
    instances: 1
    memory: 512</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="depends-on"> <title>depends-on:</title>
<p>When deploying multiple applications from a single <i>manifest.yml</i> use
the <codeph>depends-on:</codeph> key to set the order in which the
apps are started and stopped. An app with the <codeph>depends-on:</codeph> option will be pushed only after the listed apps have been
pushed and are running on the server.</p>
<p>In the previous example, if you wanted to ensure that <codeph>web</codeph> was started before <codeph>worker</codeph>, you would add
<codeph>depends-on: worker</codeph> in the <codeph>web:</codeph> section:</p>
<codeblock>applications:
  web:
    depends-on: worker
    name: springweb
    framework:
      name: spring
    instances: 1
    memory: 512
  worker:
    name: springweb-helper
    framework:
      name: node
    instances: 1
    memory: 64</codeblock>
<p>If an app is stopped or restarted, the process happens in the reverse
order.</p>
</section>
<section id="helion"> <title>helion:</title>
<p>The following Application Lifecycle Service-specific options need to be placed in a
<codeph>helion:</codeph> block within the application block.</p>
<ul>
<li>processes:</li>
<li>min_version:</li>
<li>env:</li>
<li>ignores:</li>
<li>hooks:</li>
<li>cron:</li>
<li>requirements</li>
</ul>
<p>For example:</p>
<codeblock>applications:
  .:
    name: celery-demo
    buildpack: https://github.com/hpcloud/stackato-buildpack-python.git
    memory: 128
    helion:
      env:
        CELERY_ENV:
          default: crisper
      processes:
        web: celeryd
      requirements:
        pypm: [celery]
      hooks:
        pre-running:
          - sudo cp $HOME/fstab /etc/fstab
          - sudo mount /dev/shm
      min_version:
        server: 0.9.0.143
        client: 1.0</codeblock>
<p>Configuration options for Application Lifecycle Service applications can be stored in a
<i>manifest.yml</i> file in the top-level application directory.</p>
<p>The <i>manifest.yml</i> file defines <b>keys</b> and associated <b>values</b> which
the <codeph>helion</codeph> client uses to set options that are
otherwise passed by the user as command arguments or answers to prompts.
Other values are used by the server to install needed packages, or run
setup scripts during the staging, post-staging, or pre-running steps in
deployment.</p>
<p>
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/key-substitution">Key substitution</xref> can be used to
insert values from one key into another.</p>
<p>The following sections describe the available keys and the values that
can be assigned to them:</p>
</section>
<section id="name"> <title>name:</title>
<p>This is the name of the application being pushed. If not specified, the
user will be prompted during <codeph>helion push</codeph> to
provide a name. The name can also be specified on the command line (eg.
<codeph>helion push currency-converter</codeph>).</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>name: currency-converter</codeblock>
      <note> The application name must be a valid <xref
          href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hostname#Restrictions_on_valid_host_names"
          scope="external" format="html">hostname label</xref> (i.e. containing only alphanumeric
        characters and hyphens).</note>
</section>
<section id="buildpack"> <title>buildpack:</title>
<p>The Git repository URL for the specific <xref href="buildpack.dita#topic3370">buildpack</xref>
        used to deploy the application. For example:</p>
<codeblock>  name: java-app
memory: 512M
buildpack: https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-java.git</codeblock>
<p>If unset, Application Lifecycle Service will check to see if the application triggers the
  <codeph>detect</codeph> scripts in any of its <xref href="buildpack.dita#topic3370/built-in-buildpacks" type="section"   >built-in
buildpacks</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="framework"> <title>framework:</title>
<p>Allows the app to specify a framework and runtime to be used. Specifying a value for the
          <codeph>framework</codeph> key triggers the use of the <xref
          href="buildpack.dita#topic3370/legacy-buildpack">Legacy Buildpack</xref>.</p>
<p>The keys in the <codeph>framework</codeph> section are used with the <xref
  href="buildpack.dita#topic3370/built-in-buildpacks"  type="section" >Legacy Buildpack</xref> only. Applications using language
        or framework-specific buildpacks do not require these values, and should instead specify the
          <xref href="#topic20922/buildpack" format="dita">buildpack</xref> or rely on the detection
        scripts of the <xref
          href="buildpack.dita#topic3370/built-in-buildpacks"
          type="section" >built-in buildpacks</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="type"> <title>type:</title>
<p>The framework to use. Check <codeph>helion frameworks</codeph>
for a complete list of available frameworks. If not specified, user may
be prompted during <codeph>helion push</codeph>. Can also be
input with the command line option --framework, -f (eg.
<codeph>helion push --framework python</codeph>).</p>
</section>
<section id="runtime"> <title>runtime:</title>
<p>The runtime to use. Check <codeph>helion runtimes</codeph> for a
complete list of available runtimes. If not specified, server will
select the best option based on available data. Can also be input with
the command line option --runtime, -f (eg.
<codeph>helion push --runtime python32</codeph>).</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  framework:
  type: python
  runtime: python32</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="document-root"> <title>document-root:</title>
<p>Overrides the default document-root setting (\$HOME) for the web server.</p>
      <note type="restriction"> Applies to Node.js, Perl, PHP and Python frameworks only.</note>
<p>Setting a deeper document root directory avoids the problem of exposing
supporting files (e.g. <i>manifest.yml</i>) over HTTP.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  framework:
  type: php
  document-root: web</codeblock>
<p>The document-root must always be specified relative to \$HOME
(/home/helion/app).</p>
</section>
<section id="start-file"> <title>start-file:</title>
<p>Set the main application filename.</p>
<p>
        <note type="restriction">Applies to Perl and Python frameworks only.</note>
      </p>
<p>If your application does not use a conventional filename (e.g. app.psgi
for Perl, wsgi.py for Python) using this option, possibly in conjunction
with <b>document-root</b>, avoids the need to refactor the application for
Application Lifecycle Service. For example:</p>
<codeblock>  framework:
  start-file: temp.psgi</codeblock>
<p>Or:</p>
<codeblock>  framework:
  start-file: temp.py</codeblock>
<p>This value will be used by the <xref
          href="../reference/environment.dita#topic7631/processes-web">PROCESSES_WEB</xref> and
        HELION_START_FILE environment variables. Any changes to HELION_START_FILE at runtime will
        not change the value of <xref
          href="../reference/environment.dita#topic7631/processes-web">PROCESSES_WEB</xref> as the macro is expanded before the pre-running hooks
        are run.</p>
</section>
<section id="app-dir"> <title>app-dir</title>
<p>The directory containing the application code to be pushed to Application Lifecycle Service
(if it's not in the top-level directory). This directory becomes the
\$HOME directory of the application when the application is pushed to
Application Lifecycle Service. For example, Java applications will often have a 'target'
sub-directory containing the output of ant or mvn builds:</p>
<codeblock> name: sample
framework:
  type: java_web
  runtime: java7
app-dir: target</codeblock>
<p>If required, you can also set <xref href="#topic20922/document-root" format="dita"
          >document-root</xref> in the <xref type="section" href="#topic20922/framework"
          >framework</xref> section to specify a sub-directory of the application \$HOME to be used
        as the document root.</p>
<p>To launch multiple applications from multiple sub-directories use a <xref href="#topic20922"
          format="dita"><i>manifest.yml</i></xref> file.</p>
</section>
<section id="services">
      <title>services:</title>
      <p>This key specifies a list of services to create and bind to an application. Each sub-key is
        the name of the service to create or bind, and the associated value is the type of the new
        service.</p>
      <p>If you need to launch an application that must attach to an existing user-provided service
        instance, specify only the name of a service.</p>
      <note>If only the name of a service is specified in a <codeph>services:</codeph> block, ALS
        will look for an existing service with the specified name instead of creating a new service
        (which requires additional keys).</note>
      <p>If multiple services of the same type are needed, list them on separate lines, for
        example:</p>
      <codeblock>services:
  customerdb:mysql
  paymentsdb:mysql</codeblock>
      <p>If the key is not specified, the user may be prompted for a value during <codeph>helion
          push</codeph>.</p>
      <note>For a complete list of available services, use the <codeph>helion services</codeph>
        command. For more information on how services are bound to applications, see the <xref
          href="../services/data-services.dita#user_data_services">Data Services</xref>
        section.</note>
      <p>To create service names based on the specified application name, you can use <xref
          type="section" href="#topic20922/key-substitution">key substitution</xref>, for
        example:</p>
      <codeblock>services:
  ${name}-db: mysql</codeblock>
      <p>To push multiple versions of the same application (using different names) that will use
        separate databases, you can specify the application name as a <xref type="section"
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-management.dita#topic50918/command-push">helion
          push</xref> option, overriding the <codeph>name:</codeph> value defined in
          <codeph>manifest.yml</codeph>, for example:</p>
      <codeblock>name: sample
services:
  ${name}-db: mysql</codeblock>
      <p>A data service is created to match that name using the name specified in
          <codeph>manifest.yml</codeph>:</p>
      <codeblock>$ helion push -n
Pushing application 'sample'...
Runtime:         &lt;framework-specific default>
Application Url:sample.helion-pjw3.local
Creating Application [sample]:OK
Binding service [sample-db]:OK
...
Starting Application [sample]:...OK</codeblock>
      <p>If you specify a new name for the application as a <xref type="section"
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref-management.dita#topic50918/command-push">helion
          push</xref> argument, a new service with a matching name is created rather than binding to
        the existing <codeph>sample-db</codeph> service:</p>
      <codeblock>$ helion push sample-2 -n
Pushing application 'sample-2'...
Runtime:         &lt;framework-specific default>
Application Url: sample-2.helion-pjw3.local
Creating Application [sample-2]: OK
Binding service [sample-2-db]: OK
...
Starting Application [sample-2]: ..OK

$ helion apps

+-------------+---+---------+------------------------------+-------------+
| Application | # | Health  | URLS                         | Services    |
+-------------+---+---------+------------------------------+-------------+
| sample      | 1 | RUNNING | sample.helion-pjw3.local     | sample-db   |
| sample-2    | 1 | RUNNING | sample-2.helion-pjw3.local   | sample-2-db |
+-------------+---+---------+------------------------------+-------------+</codeblock>
    </section>
<section id="requirements"> <title>Requirements</title>
<p>Specifies required modules and allows the installation of additional operating system
        packages.</p>
</section>
<section id="os-packages"> <title>Operating System Packages</title>
<p>Operating System packages can be added in an <codeph>ubuntu:</codeph> block within a
          <codeph>staging:</codeph> and/or <codeph>running:</codeph> block. Plain strings are
        treated as package names:</p>
<codeblock>  requirements:
  staging:
    ubuntu:
      - libfoo-dev
  running:
    ubuntu:
      - libfoo
      - some-app</codeblock>
<p>To add the package requirements to both the staging and running phases add the
          <codeph>ubuntu:</codeph> block directly beneath the <codeph>requirements:</codeph>
        key:</p>
<codeblock>  requirements:
  ubuntu:
    - libfoo-dev</codeblock>
<p>If your account has been given sudo privileges in application
containers, you can use arrays to add additional repositories,
overriding repository restrictions set by admins.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  requirements:
  staging:
    ubuntu:
      - ["ppa:gophers/go"]
      - golang-stable
  running:
    ubuntu:
      - libfoo</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="language-modules"> <title>Language Modules</title>
<p>For the installation of language modules, replace the
<i>requirements.txt</i> file. For Python, <codeph>pypm:</codeph> and <codeph>pip:</codeph> can be specified:</p>
<codeblock>  requirements:
  pypm:
    - tornado
    - pymongo
  pip:
    - pycurl</codeblock>
<p>For Perl, <codeph>ppm:</codeph> or <codeph>cpan:</codeph> can be specified:</p>
<codeblock>  requirements:
  ppm:
    - CGI::Application::PSGI
    - Plack::Builder

requirements:
  cpan:
    - CGI::Application::PSGI
    - Plack::Builder</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="mem"> <title>memory:</title>
<p>The amount of memory to allocate for the application.</p>
<p>Syntax: \&lt;int&gt; or \&lt;int&gt;M - Memory in megabytes. eg. 256M</p>
<p>Syntax: \&lt;int&gt;G or \&lt;float&gt;G - Memory in gigabytes. eg. 1.5G or 2G</p>
<p>If not specified, user may be prompted during <codeph>helion push</codeph>. Can also be specified on the command line (eg.
<codeph>helion push --mem 256M</codeph>).</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  memory: 64M</codeblock>
</section>

<section id="disk"> <title>disk:</title> 
<p>The amount of disk space to allocate for the application (minimum 512MB, maximum 2GB). This is a per-instance
        limit.</p>
<p>Syntax: \&lt;int&gt; or \&lt;int&gt;M - Disk in megabytes. eg. 768M</p>
<p>Syntax: \&lt;int&gt;G or \&lt;float&gt;G - Disk in gigabytes. eg. 1.5G or 2G</p>
<p>If not specified, 2GB of disk space is allocated. Can also be specified
on the command line (eg. <codeph>helion push --disk 768M</codeph>).</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  memory: 3.5GB</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="instances"> <title>instances:</title>
<p>The number of instances to allocate for the application. If not
specified, defaults to 1. Can be specified on the command line (eg.
helion push <codeph>--instances 2</codeph>).</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  instances: 2</codeblock>
</section>
  <section id="placement-zone"><title>Placement Zones</title> The DEA <xref type="section"
        href="../../admin/cluster/zones.dita#topic_u3c_rtd_5s/dea-zones-placement">placement
        zone</xref> to run the app in (optional). Use the <xref
        href="../reference/client-ref-placement.dita">placement-zones</xref> command to see which
      placement zones are available on the current target. </section>
<section id="url-or-urls"> <title>url (or urls):</title>
<p>List of URLs mapped to the application. For example:</p>
<codeblock>  name: cms-platform

url:
  - blog.example.org
  - exampleblog.com</codeblock>
<p>With this key specified, Application Lifecycle Service will not assign a default
"appname.paasname.com" URL to the application. If you would like this
URL assigned as well, add <codeph>${name}.${target-base}</codeph>
to the list of URLs.</p>
</section>
<section id="env"> <title>env:</title>
<p>A map of environment variables to initialize for the application. Each
subkey is the name of the variable, with an associated value.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  env:
  HOME_IP_ADDRESS: 127.0.0.1</codeblock>
<p>Avoid using this for values which should not be stored in plain text,
such as API keys and passwords.</p>
</section>
<section id="env-attributes"> <title>env Attributes</title>
<p>Each environment variable can have attributes which modify the
  interactive behavior of the <xref href="../../user/reference/client-ref.dita" >ALS client</xref> when using the
  <xref type="section" href="../../user/reference/client-ref-management.dita#topic50918/command-push">push</xref> command. These
attributes are set with the following keys:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>default</b> (string): The value to use if nothing is entered by the
user interactively (no default).</li>
<li>
<b>required</b> (<xref href="http://yaml.org/type/bool.html" scope="external" format="html" >boolean</xref>): If set,
the variable must have a value (defaults to "false" == "not
required").</li>
<li>
<b>inherit</b> (boolean): If set, the client looks in the local
environment for a variable of the same name and takes its value
(defaults to "false" == "no inheritance").</li>
<li>
<b>prompt</b> (string): The prompt to show when the client asks for the
variable value (Defaults to "Enter \&lt;varname&gt;:").</li>
<li>
<b>choices</b> (list of strings): If specified, a list of legal values
for the variable, to be presented to the user as a menu rather than
prompting for a string (no default).</li>
</ul>
<p>For example:</p>
<codeblock>  env:
  MY_SPECIAL_VAR:
    default: "development"
    required: y
    inherit: y
    prompt: "What type of deployment?: "
    choices:
      - "development"
      - "testing"
      - "staging"
      - "production"</codeblock>
<p>Pushing with the <codeph>--no-prompt</codeph> option will fail with
the error message "Required variable <i>VAR_NAME</i> not set" if "required"
is set but no value is given (via "default", "inherit" or the
<codeph>--env</codeph> option).</p>
<p>
        <note>These attributes are only recognized by the <xref
          href="../../user/reference/client-ref.dita">ALS
            client</xref>.</note>
      </p>
</section>
<section id="processes"> <title>processes:</title>
</section>
<section id="web"> <title>web:</title>
  <note> Used with the <xref href="buildpack.dita#topic3370/legacy-buildpack">Legacy</xref>
        buildpack only. When using other buildpacks, create a <xref
          href="https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile" scope="external" format="html"
          >Procfile</xref> in the application's root directory.</note>
<p>Specify a custom command to launch your web application or to pass
custom arguments to uWSGI. For example:</p>
<codeblock>  processes:
  web: python3.2 app.py</codeblock>
<p>This key is required when using the <xref href="other-frameworks.dita#topic2413/generic"
          >generic framework</xref>, but is optionally available for all other frameworks.</p>
<p>
<b>If defined</b>, this process is expected to launch a HTTP server bound
to <codeph>0.0.0.0</codeph> host and <codeph>$PORT</codeph>
port.</p>
<p>
<b>If set to Null ("\~")</b>, the application is treated as a worker
application and not provisioned with a URL. For example, an application
that just runs a background Perl script might look like this:</p>
<codeblock>  name: perlwork
framework:
  type: perl
command: perl worker.pl
processes:
  web: ~</codeblock>
<p>A 'command:' value must be present for worker applications.</p>
<p>If the application exists solely to run commands via
<xref type="section" href="#topic20922/cron">cron</xref>, a dummy command such as '<i>sleep 365d</i>'
should be specified.</p>
<p>The <codeph>$PROCESSES_WEB</codeph> and <codeph>$HELION_UWSGI</codeph> variables can also be used with <codeph>processes: web:</codeph>.</p>
<p>
<codeph>$PROCESSES_WEB</codeph> contains the command that is used
to start the web application, if you want to override the default
command.</p>
<p>
<codeph>$HELION_UWSGI</codeph> is defined for runtimes using
uWSGI (Perl and Python), and it contains the command to start uWSGI with
all relevant options. It can be used if you are appending additional
uWSGI options to the command.</p>
</section>
<section id="command"> <title>command:</title>
<p>Used for worker applications to start a background process. Below is an example using the <xref
          href="other-frameworks.dita#topic2413/standalone">standalone framework</xref>:</p>
<codeblock>  name: helion-worker
instances: 1
framework:
  type: standalone
  runtime: ruby18
command: ruby worker.rb</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="cron"> <title>cron:</title>
<p>Commands listed here are added to the crontab file. </p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  cron:
  - PLUGH=xyzzy
  - "*/1 * * * * env &gt; $HOME/env"</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="ignores"> <title>ignores:</title>
<p>A list of .gitignore-style patterns. Files and directories in the
application directory matching at least one pattern are ignored during
"push" and "update".</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  ignores: ["tmp", ".git"]</codeblock>
<p>To include all hidden files or folders simply use an empty list.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  ignores: []</codeblock>
<p>If not specified, a default list is used to exclude files and folders
not typically required in a deployed application (e.g. the dot files and
folders of various source code control systems).</p>
<p>The default list contains the following: \~*/, .git/, *.svn/, *.hg/,
*CVS/, _FOSSIL_.fos, *.bzr, *.cdv, *.pc, *RCS, *SCCS,*_MTN,
*_build, *_darcs, *_sgbak, *autom4te.cache, *blib, *cover_db,
*\~.dep, *\~.dot, *\~.nib, *\~.plst</p>
</section>
<section id="inherit"> <title>inherit:</title>
<p>This special key has the effect of treating its value as the name of a
file to be included into <i>manifest.yml</i>.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<p>
<i>parent.yml</i>:</p>
<codeblock>  env:
  COMPANY: The ABC Company</codeblock>
<p>
<i>manifest.yml</i>:</p>
<codeblock>  name: example-app
inherit: parent.yml
memory: 64M</codeblock>
<p>effect from processing:</p>
<codeblock>  name: example-app
env:
  COMPANY: The ABC Company
memory: 64M</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="hooks"> <title>hooks:</title>
<p>Hooks are commands that are run at various point of the staging and
running process of an app.</p>
</section>
<section id="pre-push"> <title>pre-push:</title>
<p>Commands run <b>on the local system</b> before pushing the code to
Application Lifecycle Service. This can be useful for building source files (e.g. with
<codeph>make</codeph>) or performing configuration steps that need
to be done on the local system before the application code can be
pushed. Commands are executed between application creation (when the URL
and application resources are reserved) and the actual upload of the
local code.</p>
<p>The client will set the HELION_HOOK_ACTION variable to "create" if
the application is new, or "update" if it detects the application
already exists. You can use this variable to run hooks differently in
either context.</p>
</section>
<section id="pre-staging"> <title>pre-staging:</title>
<p>A list of commands to be run in the root of the app's directory before
the staging process is started. The commands are only run a single time
on push or update.</p>
</section>
<section id="post-staging"> <title>post-staging:</title>
<p>A list of commands to be run in the root of the app's directory after
the staging process is complete. The commands are only run a single time
on push or update.</p>
</section>
<section id="pre-running"> <title>pre-running:</title>
<p>A list of commands to be run in the root of the app's directory after
staging is complete and before the app is started. The commands are run
sequentially, in the order listed, each time an app is started or
restarted.</p>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  hooks:
  pre-staging:
    - python prestagingsetup.py
  post-staging:
    - python manage.py syncdb --noinput
    - python manage.py migrate --noinput
  pre-running:
  - python prerunsetup.py</codeblock>
<p>Hook processing ends and staging aborts if a command returns a nonzero
exit status (i.e. if the command fails). You can suppress this behavior
by prefacing the command with "-" to force staging to proceed despite
failures. The "-" must be included in a quoted command string. For
example:</p>
<codeblock>  hooks:
  post-staging:
    - "-python manage.py syncdb --noinput"</codeblock>
<p>Commands used in the <codeph>hooks:</codeph> keys may not include
shell metacharacters, such as "&amp;&amp;" for combining commands, "#" for
comments, "\&lt;", "&gt;" or "|" for I/O redirection.</p>
<p>If you need shell functionality such as metacharacters, signal trapping,
or forcing zero exit status, wrap your command in a <i>script.sh</i> file and
use <codeph>sh +x script.sh</codeph> as your hook command.</p>
<p>Also note that if only a single command needs to be run, the list format
is not needed and can be included on the same line:</p>
<codeblock>  hooks:
  post-staging: python staging.py
  pre-running:  python running.py</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="drain"> <title>drain:</title>
<p>
        <xref
            href="app-logs.dita#topic5165/helion-drain">Application log drains</xref> can
        be added to an application when it is deployed by describing them in a
          <codeph>drain:</codeph> block with a drain name and URL:</p>
<codeblock>  drain:
  drain_name: protocol://host.domain.tld:port/</codeblock>
<p>To enable JSON logging, specify the URL separately along with a
<codeph>json: true</codeph> line:</p>
<codeblock>  drain:
  drain_name:
    url: protocol://host.domain.tld:port/
    json: true</codeblock>
<p>For example:</p>
<codeblock>  drain:
  mytestdrain: udp://logs.loggly.com:12346/
  otherdrain:
    url: tcp://logs.papertrailapp.com:12345/
    json: true</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="min-version"> <title>min_version:</title>
<p>Sets requirements for the minimum version of the client and server under
which the app will run.</p>
</section>
<section id="client"> <title>client:</title>
<p>The minimum version of the Application Lifecycle Service client needed to manage the app.</p>
<p>To determine the client version, use:</p>
<codeblock>helion version
helion 0.3.13.0.18</codeblock>
<p>Example:</p>
<codeblock>  min_version:
  client: 0.3.13.0.18</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="server"> <title>server:</title>
<p>The minimum version of the Application Lifecycle Service server needed to run the app.</p>
</section>
<section id="key-substitution">
      <title>Key Substitution</title>
      <p>The value of any key in <i>manifest.yml</i> can be inserted in other keys using the
          \${<i>key</i>} syntax. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>  name: example-app
env:
  MY_NAME: ${name}</codeblock>
      <p>This defines a "MY_NAME" environment variable with the value "example-app".  <note>See the
          services section for an example of variable key substitution for yaml key
        names.</note></p>
      <p>A small number of keys are predefined for your use within <i>manifest.yml</i>:</p>
      <codeblock>  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  key
  substitution
  value
  -------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
  \${random-word \${target-base}
  }              The hostname of the targeted Application Lifecycle Service system, for
  A short        example **helion-xxxx.local**
  alphanumeric   
  string of      
  random         
  characters     
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------</codeblock>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
