<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2413">
<title>HPE Helion 2.0 Development Platform: Generic and Standalone Frameworks</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Development Platform 2.0"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>The Generic and Standalone frameworks are for applications that might not fit any of the other frameworks available in Application Lifecycle Service.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<b>Generic</b> is for web applications.</li>
<li>
<b>Standalone</b> is for background applications without an HTTP
interface.</li>
</ul>
<p>These two frameworks make no assumptions about the application type and
can be customized to run a wide variety of non-standard applications.</p>
<p>Any language <xref href="manifestyml.dita#topic20922/runtime"><i>runtime</i></xref> available
      on the server can be specified in the config file. If a runtime is not specified, Python 2.7
      is made available by default.</p>
<section id="generic"> <title>Generic</title>
<p>The Generic framework requires a custom <xref href="manifestyml.dita#topic20922/processes"
            ><i>processes: web:</i></xref> setting in <i>manifest.yml</i> specifying a command to
        start the web process (e.g. a custom web server).</p>
<p>The example below shows a web process that serves static files from the
application directory using Python's
  <xref href="http://docs.python.org/2/library/simplehttpserver.html" format="html" scope="external">SimpleHTTPServer</xref>:</p>
<codeblock>framework:
    type: generic
processes:
    web: python -m SimpleHTTPServer $PORT</codeblock>
<p>If you wish to run an application <i>without</i> a web interface (i.e. a background "worker"
        process), <xref href="manifestyml.dita#topic20922/processes"><i>set 'processes: web:' to
            Null</i>
        </xref>or use the Standalone framework instead.</p>
</section>
<section id="standalone">
      <title>Standalone</title>
      <p>The Standalone framework uses a custom command specified in the <xref
          href="manifestyml.dita#topic20922/command"
          type="section">
          <i>command:</i>
        </xref> key to start a background worker process.</p>
      <p>The example below shows <i>manifest.yml</i> configuration for an application running a
        simple Python worker script.</p>
      <codeblock>name: worker
framework:
  type: standalone
  runtime: python27
command: python main.py</codeblock>
      <p>The <codeph>command</codeph> must start a long-running child process. If this process exits
        for any reason, the Health Manager will restart the application instance.</p>
      <p>Application Lifecycle Service will not assign URLs to apps deployed with the standalone
        framework, as it is intended for background worker processes. The <codeph>helion</codeph>
        client includes a heuristic that will automatically suppress URL mapping for applications
        using this framework.</p>
      <p>
        <note>If the application does not serve web requests, it may appear in the Management
          Console or <codeph>helion apps</codeph> command as not running. To verify a non-web
          application is actually running, use <codeph>helion logs</codeph> or <codeph>helion
            ssh</codeph>.</note>
      </p>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
