<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3709">
<title>HP Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Carrier Grade 2.0: Managing Active Compute Nodes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-active-compute.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/carrier/admin/host/management/active/compute/--></p>
<!-- From the Titanium Server Admin Guide -->
<p>The compute nodes in HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade form a resource pool for hosting guest instances. You can manage this pool by managing the hosts.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>
<b>Note:</b> This feature applies only to servers in the VNF Region.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
<p>You can change the resource pool in several ways:
* You can add or remove hosts to increase or decrease the size of the pool.
* You can replace a host with another that has different resources (for example, memory, or number of CPU cores).
* You can adjust the resources on an existing host.
* You can replace a failed compute node host with an equivalent.</p>
<p>
<b>Caution:</b> When replacing or adjusting a host, ensure that the overall resource pool still meets the requirements for your system.</p>
<p>Complete instructions for adding a compute node are provided in <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-initialize-compute.dita" >Initializing and Configuring Compute Nodes</xref>.</p>
<p>In this topic:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3709/removing">Removing Compute Nodes</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3709/adjust">Adjusting Resources on a Compute Node</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="removing"> <title>Removing Compute Nodes</title>
<p>You can remove a compute node from the pool of available resources.</p>
<p>You may need to remove a compute node in order to replace a failed host, or to change the configuration of a host. If the host is active, you can migrate instances on it by locking the host.</p>
<p>Caution: Before locking a host, ensure that sufficient resources are available on other hosts to migrate any running instances.</p>
<p>To remove a compute node on an active system:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>

<ul>
<li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change, either: the Non-KVM region or the KVM region.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>System Inventory</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita" >Lock the host to be removed</xref> by clicking <b>More</b> then <b>Lock Host</b> for the controller.</p>

<p>Wait for the procedure to be completed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
  <xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita" >Delete the host</xref> from the HP Helion OpenStack Carrier Grade system. Click <b>More</b> then <b>Delete Host</b> for the host.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Power down the host and remove the hardware from the cluster.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="adjust"> <title>Adjusting Resources on a Compute Node</title>
<p>You can adjust the resources of a compute node while it is offline.</p>
<p>To adjust compute node resources on an active system:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/Dashboard/CGH-2-User-Dashboard-launch.dita#topic1160" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Horizon Dashboard</xref>.</p>

<ul>
<li>Use the IP address for the appropriate region where you want to make the change, either: the Non-KVM region or the KVM region.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Admin</b> dashboard, then the <b>System</b> panel, then the <b>System Inventory</b> link.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Hosts</b> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita" >Lock the host to be modified</xref> by clicking <b>More</b> then <b>Lock Host</b> for the controller.</p>

<p>Wait for the procedure to be completed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#power" type="section"  >Power down the host</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Make any required resource changes (for example, BIOS changes required for proper operation).</p>

<p>If you are adding a disk to provide additional local storage for VMs, you can install an unpartitioned disk. New disks are detected by the compute node operating system and automatically configured with a single partition.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management.dita#power" type="section"  >Power on the host</xref> and wait for it to reboot fully.</p>

<p>When the host is fully rebooted, it is shown as Locked, Enabled, and Available in the Hosts list.</p>

<p>Note: Do not unlock the host until it is fully rebooted.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../CarrierGrade/AdminGuideNew/HostManagement/carrier-grade-admin-wr-host-management-host-lock.dita" >Unlock the host</xref>.</p>

<p>The host is rebooted a second time.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The host is ready for use  with the adjusted resources when reported as <codeph>Unlocked</codeph>, <codeph>Enabled</codeph>.</p>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic3709"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
