---
layout: default
title: "HP Helion OpenStack&#174; Pausing Instances"
permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/pause/
product: commercial.ga

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

<script>

function PageRefresh {
onLoad="window.refresh"
}

PageRefresh();

</script>

<!--
<p style="font-size: small;"> <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install/">&#9664; PREV</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/install-overview/">&#9650; UP</a> | <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/ga1/">NEXT &#9654;</a></p> 
-->

# HP Helion OpenStack&#174; 1.1 Pausing and Un-pausing Instances

When a user *pauses* an instance, the instance  remains running, but, in a frozen state. The contents of the instance are stored in memory (RAM). Memory and vCPUs are not released.

Users can suspend an instance, for example, in order to make a back up of an instance to prevent the instance  from being used during the process.


**Note:** Pausing is different from <a href="/helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/suspend/">suspending an instance</a>. Suspending stops the instance, stores the contents on the disk. the memory and vCPUs become available to create other instances.  


### Pause an instance ###

To pause an instance:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Instances** link on the **Project** dashboard **Compute** panel.

3. In the **Instances** screen, for the instance you want to modify, click **More &gt; Pause Instance**.
<p>The status of the instance reports *Paused*.</p> 

4. Note that many of the commands on the **More** menu are not available for a paused instance.

### Un-pause an instance ###

To unpause an instance:

1. [Launch the HP Helion OpenStack Helion Dashboard](/helion/openstack/1.1/dashboard/login/).

2. Click the **Instances** link on the **Project** dashboard **Compute** panel.

3. In the **Instances** screen, for the instance you want to modify, click **More &gt; Resume Instance**.

	Note that all of the commands on the **More** menu are available.

<p><a href="#top" style="padding:14px 0px 14px 0px; text-decoration: none;"> Return to Top &#8593; </a></p>


----
