<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1314">
<title>HP Helion OpenStack(R) 1.1: Rebuilding Instances</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body><section id="top" />
<p>
<!--UNDER REVISION-->
 <!--./UseCases/TasksforUsers/Instances/1.1commercial.dashboard.instances.rebuild.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/commercial/1.1/dashboard/managing/instances/rebuild/--></p>
<p>The rebuild operation removes all data on the server and replaces it with the specified image.</p>
<p>A rebuild operation always removes data injected into the file system through server personality. You can reinsert data into the file system during the rebuild.</p>
<section id="rebuilding-an-instance"> <title>Rebuilding an instance</title>
<p>To rebuild an instance:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>
<xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.launch.dita" >Launch the HP Helion OpenStack(R) Helion Dashboard</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <b>Instances</b> link on the <b>Project</b> dashboard <b>Compute</b> panel.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Instances</b> screen, for the instance you want to rebuild, click <b>Menu &gt; Rebuild Instance</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <b>Rebuild Instances</b> screen:</p>

<ul>
<li>Select the image to use to rebuild the instance. You can select the same image or rebuild using a different image.</li>
<li>Specify whether the instance will automatically partition, based on the image, or you will manually partition the instance.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the confirmation screen, click <b>Rebuild Instance</b>.</p>

<p>The progress of the reboot is displayed in the <b>Task</b> column on the <b>Instances</b> screen.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref type="section" href="#topic1314/top"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
