<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2972">
<title>HP Helion 1.0 Development Platform: HP Helion Application Lifecycle Service Client</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/client/1.0index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /als/v1/user/client/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The Helion client is the command-line interface
to Application Lifecycle Service. You can use it to push application code up to the server,
start and stop applications, create data services and link them to
applications, and a number of other application management operations.</p>
<p>The <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" type="section" scope="external"  >Command Reference</xref> has full descriptions of all client commands and options. These details are also available at the command line via the <i>helion help</i> command.</p>
<section id="helion-client-setup"> <title>Application Lifecycle Service Client Setup</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Using the <tm tmtype="reg">Windows</tm> Helion client with
<xref href="http://www.cygwin.com/" scope="external" format="html" >Cygwin</xref> is not supported.</p>
<p>Download the client for your platform (Windows, OS X, <tm tmtype="reg">Linux</tm> x86,
    Linux x64) by following these instructions.</p>
<ol>
<li>From the ALS cluster management console, find and click on the "Download the Client" button.</li>
<li>You will taken to a page showing your download options. Select the option for your desired platform.</li>
<li>Unzip the archive in a convenient directory.</li>
<li>
<p>Add the executable to your system/shell \$PATH by:</p>

<ul>
<li>Windows: path = %path%; (where path is the path to the Helion cli)</li>
<li>Linux, OS X: moving it to a directory in your \$PATH,</li>
<li>creating a symlink from a directory in your \$PATH, or</li>
<li>creating a shell alias for the executable.</li>
</ul>
<p>For Linux or <tm tmtype="reg">Mac OS X</tm>: Make sure the file is set as executable</p>

<ul>
<li>(<codeph>chmod +x helion</codeph>) or</li>
<li>On some systems read access is also necessary    (<codeph>chmod 755 helion</codeph>).</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Confirm that the client is installed correctly by running
<i>helion help</i>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="getting-help"> <title>Getting Help</title>
<p>To get a list of available commands or help on a particular command:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion help [COMMAND]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>See also the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.0client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" type="section" scope="external"  >Command Reference</xref> for a full
list of commands.</p>
</section>
<section id="targeting-the-api-endpoint"> <title>Targeting the API Endpoint</title>
<p>Before you can use the client, you must set the target URL, which is also known
as the API Endpoint. This tells the client the location where it will push applications to. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.helion.example.com
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>For a micro-cloud VM, it might be something like:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.helion-xxxx.local
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="http-proxies"> <title>HTTP Proxies</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: On the Windows operating system only, this configuration step should not be necessary, as the client queries the Internet Settings
values.</p>
<p>If there is an HTTP/HTTPS proxy on your network between your client and
the Application Lifecycle Service API endpoint, set the following environment variables in
your shell as appropriate for your proxy. With these set, the client will route
appropriately.</p>
<ul>
<li>https_proxy (e.g. "<i>https://yourproxy.example.com</i>:443/")</li>
<li>http_proxy (e.g. "<i>http://yourproxy.example.com</i>:8080/")</li>
<li>http_proxy_user</li>
<li>http_proxy_pass</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="removing-the-client"> <title>Removing the Client</title>
<p>To remove or uninstall the client, simply delete the executable and remove any
aliases or <codeph>\$PATH</codeph> modifications you have made for it.</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
