---
layout: default-devplatform
permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/client/
product: devplatform
title: "Application Lifecycle Service Command Line Client"
product-version1: HP Helion Development Platform
product-version2: HP Helion Development Platform 1.1
role1: Application Developer 
role2: ISV Developer
role3: Service Developer
role4: Systems Administrator
authors: Jayme P

---
<!--PUBLISHED-->

# HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: HP Helion Application Lifecycle Service Client {#helion-client}


The Helion ALS client is the command-line interface for the Application Lifecycle Service. You can use it to push application code up to the server, start and stop applications, create data services and link them to
applications, and a number of other application management operations.

The [Command Reference](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-ref-client) has full
descriptions of all client commands and options. These details are also
available at the command line via the *helion help* command.


- [Download](#download)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Uninstallation](#removing-the-client)
- [Getting Help from Within the Client](#getting-help)
- [Full Command Reference](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-ref-client)

##Application Lifecycle Service Client Installation {#helion-client-setup}

**Note**: Using the Windows Helion client with
[Cygwin](http://www.cygwin.com/) is not supported.

### Download {#download}
You may [download the ALS client](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/client/download) appropriate for your operating system.

Or you may download the client from within the Horizon console:

1. Click the **ALS** tab to expand it.
2. Click **Download the Client**.
3. Select the version appropriate for your operating system and download the file.
### Installation {#installation}
1.  Unzip the archive into a convenient directory.
3.  Add the executable to your system/shell `\$PATH` by:
	-   **Windows**: path = %path%; (where path is the path to the Helion client)
	-   **Linux**, **OS X**: moving it to a directory in your `\$PATH`,
	-   creating a symlink from a directory in your `\$PATH`, or
	-   creating a shell alias for the executable.



1. For Linux or Mac OS X: Make sure the file is set as executable

		chmod +x helion 


1. On some systems read access is also necessary.
 
	   	chmod 755 helion

4.  Confirm that the client is installed correctly by launching it and running *helion help*.

### Configuration  {#configuration}
After installation, perform the following configuration steps before attempting to use the client.

#### Target the API endpoint {#targeting-the-api-endpoint}

Before you can use the client, you must [set the target URL](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/gettingstarted/#command-target), which is also known as the API Endpoint. This tells the client the location where it will push applications to. For example:

   	helion target api.helion.example.com

For a micro-cloud VM, it might be something like:

	helion target api.helion-xxxx.local

#### Configure HTTP Proxies {#http-proxies}
**Note**: This configuration step should not be necessary on the Windows operating system, as the client queries the Internet Settings values. 

If there is an HTTP/HTTPS proxy on your network between your client and
the Application Lifecycle Service API endpoint, set the following environment variables in your shell as appropriate for your proxy. 

-   https\_proxy (e.g. "*https://yourproxy.example.com*:443/")
-   http\_proxy (e.g. "*http://yourproxy.example.com*:8080/")
-   http\_proxy\_user
-   http\_proxy\_pass

With these values set properly, the client will route appropriately.

## Uninstallation {#removing-the-client}

To remove or uninstall the client, simply delete the executable and remove any aliases or `\$PATH` modifications you have made for it.

##Getting Help {#getting-help}

To get a list of available commands or help on a particular command, enter:

    helion help [COMMAND]

See also the [Command Reference](/helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/reference/client-ref/#command-ref-client) for a full
list of commands.
