[See version 1.0 of this page](/)
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3229">
<title>HP Helion 1.1 Development Platform: HP Helion Application Lifecycle Service Client</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="ISV Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HP Helion Development Platform"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HP Helion Development Platform 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./devplatform/helion/user/client/1.1index.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/devplatform/1.1/als/user/client/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The Helion ALS client is the command-line interface for the Application Lifecycle Service. You can use it to push application code up to the server, start and stop applications, create data services and link them to
applications, and a number of other application management operations.</p>
<p>The <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" >Command Reference</xref> has full
descriptions of all client commands and options. These details are also
available at the command line via the <i>helion help</i> command.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3229/download">Download</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3229/installation">Installation</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3229/configuration">Configuration</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3229/removing-the-client">Uninstallation</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic3229/getting-help">Getting Help from Within the Client</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" >Full Command Reference</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="helion-client-setup"> <title>Application Lifecycle Service Client Installation</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: Using the Windows Helion client with
<xref href="http://www.cygwin.com/" scope="external" format="html" >Cygwin</xref> is not supported.</p>
</section>
<section id="download"> <title>Download</title>
<p>You may <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/CLI/1.1ALS_Client_Downloads.dita" >download the ALS client</xref> appropriate for your operating system.</p>
<p>Or you may download the client from within the Horizon console:</p>
<ol>
<li>Click the <b>ALS</b> tab to expand it.</li>
<li>Click <b>Download the Client</b>.</li>
<li>Select the version appropriate for your operating system and download the file.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="installation"> <title>Installation</title>
<ol>
<li>Unzip the archive into a convenient directory.</li>
<li>
<p>Add the executable to your system/shell <codeph>\$PATH</codeph> by:</p>

<ul>
<li>
<b>Windows</b>: path = %path%; (where path is the path to the Helion client)</li>
<li>
<b>Linux</b>, <b>OS X</b>: moving it to a directory in your <codeph>\$PATH</codeph>,</li>
<li>creating a symlink from a directory in your <codeph>\$PATH</codeph>, or</li>
<li>creating a shell alias for the executable.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>For Linux or Mac OS X: Make sure the file is set as executable</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>chmod +x helion 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>On some systems read access is also necessary.</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>chmod 755 helion
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Confirm that the client is installed correctly by launching it and running <i>helion help</i>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="configuration"> <title>Configuration</title>
<p>After installation, perform the following configuration steps before attempting to use the client.</p>
</section>
<section id="targeting-the-api-endpoint"> <title>Target the API endpoint</title>
<p>Before you can use the client, you must <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref-getting-started.dita#command-target" >set the target URL</xref>, which is also known as the API Endpoint. This tells the client the location where it will push applications to. For example:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.helion.example.com
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>For a micro-cloud VM, it might be something like:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion target api.helion-xxxx.local
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="http-proxies"> <title>Configure HTTP Proxies</title>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: This configuration step should not be necessary on the Windows operating system, as the client queries the Internet Settings values.</p>
<p>If there is an HTTP/HTTPS proxy on your network between your client and
the Application Lifecycle Service API endpoint, set the following environment variables in your shell as appropriate for your proxy.</p>
<ul>
<li>https_proxy (e.g. "<i>https://yourproxy.example.com</i>:443/")</li>
<li>http_proxy (e.g. "<i>http://yourproxy.example.com</i>:8080/")</li>
<li>http_proxy_user</li>
<li>http_proxy_pass</li>
</ul>
<p>With these values set properly, the client will route appropriately.</p>
</section>
<section id="removing-the-client"> <title>Uninstallation</title>
<p>To remove or uninstall the client, simply delete the executable and remove any aliases or <codeph>\$PATH</codeph> modifications you have made for it.</p>
</section>
<section id="getting-help"> <title>Getting Help</title>
<p>To get a list of available commands or help on a particular command, enter:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>helion help [COMMAND]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>See also the <xref href="../../../../devplatform/helion/user/reference/1.1client-ref.dita#command-ref-client" >Command Reference</xref> for a full
list of commands.</p>
</section>
</body>
</topic>
